Job Code: 13B4

Description:
Plans, organizes, and directs operation of command posts, operations centers, and control centers. Ensures positive control of assigned forces and weapon systems using command, control, and communication systems. Interprets, implements, and controls data contained in command and control (C2) systems. Briefs C2 operational requirements. Analyzes and evaluates emergency war orders. Supports C2 planning, programming, and budgeting process functions.

Operates and monitors voice and electronic communication systems. Maintains, monitors, and ensures communications systems integrity and readiness status. Monitors installation upgrades and modifications of communication systems and facilities. 2.2. Directs C2 activities. Briefs commander and staff, prepares situation updates, and develops graphic displays. Monitors special instruction issues and classified materials related to emergency action (EA) requirements. Receives, controls, uses, and destroys communication security materials. Prepares C2 records, reports, schedules, correspondence, and recurring training requirements. Observes and evaluates C2 programs and personnel. Initiates emergency staff actions. Ensures execution of operations plans and positive control of assigned weapon systems. Processes EA messages, extracts pertinent information from emergency war order, and transmits instructions to launch and execute forces. Initiates contingency and operations plans in response to emergency situations. Coordinates with other agencies to expedite traffic movement, airlift, and resource deployment. Reports on status of forces. Plans, organizes, and coordinates C2 activities. Translates directives into specific guidance for unit action. Coordinates with other agencies when planning, evaluating, and executing C2 orders and operations. Evaluates qualifications of C2 personnel. Reviews operational reports, interprets inspection results, and recommends corrective actions. Develops plans for emergency and contingency activities. Analyzes and monitors management data requirements. Controls work flow and checks methods used to process and audit data used in C2 reporting systems. Reviews data for accuracy and conformance with prescribed procedures. Analyzes management data needs and defines data requirements.