Job Code: 14N3

Description:
Performs and manages intelligence operations and applications activities. Programs, plans, and evaluates operations and applications resources and activities. Establishes priorities. Conducts and manages collection functions. Oversees collection and exploitation activities of all sources of intelligence information. Manages production, processing, and dissemination of products. Develops, validates, and prioritizes targeting and GI & S activities and procedures. Plans and implements aircrew training. Determines unit requirements and tailors intelligence support to missions, equipment, and employment tactics. Establishes, recommends, and disseminates information and intelligence collection requirements. Supports combat operations. Coordinates inputs to intelligence operations plans and orders. Advises commanders on threat systems deployment, employment, tactics and capabilities, vulnerabilities, and force protection issues. Performs and oversees analysis and fusion of collected intelligence, and produces assessments to meet operational requirements. Analyzes data to advise planners of options to accomplish objectives. Helps develop weaponeering methodologies. Evaluates mission accomplishment to determine remaining adversary capability and requirements for retargeting. Coordinates intelligence estimates and analytical activities. Assists in operational employment planning. Recommends weapons allocation and application. Coordinates inputs to intelligence operations plans and orders. Advises commanders on threat systems deployment, employment, tactics and capabilities, and vulnerabilities. Provides intelligence support and assists in planning and execution of information warfare. Exchanges and collects intelligence with other services, agencies, and governments.  Conducts operations and related activities. Manages and integrates collected intelligence information. Integrates intelligence into information operations. Performs and directs intelligence briefings and debriefings of repatriates, defectors, emigres, foreign nationals, and United States personnel. Manages collection requirements by validating, prioritizing, and coordinating user requests. Ensures operational needs are met through collection system tasking. Supports weapon system acquisition and force structure planning. Develops intelligence policies and plans. Evaluates impact of legislative action, executive orders, regulations, directives, and management decisions. Integrates intelligence activities into plans and programs. Develops and implements intelligence operations and applications policies, plans, concepts, systems, and orders, including GI & S and human, signal, imagery, and measurement and signature types of intelligence. Manages and coordinates intelligence activities. Reports aspects of operations and applications functions and responsibilities. Confers with government, business, professional, scientific, and other nations' organizations to provide support, exchange ideas, participate in studies, and coordinate on proposals and findings. Manages intelligence responsibilities of the Department of Defense Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System. Coordinates with personnel, materiel, planning, programming, and operational functions on allocation of resources, availability of funds, and preparation and implementation of operational plans. Directs intelligence activities. Directs operations and applications activities and organizations, and establishes goals and objectives. Reviews requirements for objectives and relative priorities. Serves as senior intelligence advisor to commander and the Force Protection Working Group (FPWG). Directs preparation of intelligence budget estimates and financial plans. Implements standardization, evaluation, and training programs, and monitors compliance.<\/p>