Job Code: 1A191B

Description:
Performs aircraft visual inspections and in-flight duties. Operates and monitors engine and aircraft systems controls, panels, indicators and devices. Manages flight engineer functions and activities.

experience is mandatory in functions such as aircraft and performance weight and balance computations, aircraft records maintenance, and aircraft systems maintenance and inspections. experience is mandatory in performing or supervising functions such as flight engineer activities.

experience managing flight engineer functions and activities.

Performs aircraft inspections. Performs aircrew visual inspection; non-scheduled aircraft maintenance; and preflight, through-flight, and post flight inspections of aircraft away from home station. Maintains aircraft forms and records during flight and while aircraft is away from home station. Computes and applies aircraft weight, balance, and performance data. Determines and verifies passenger, cargo, fuel, and emergency and special equipment distribution and weight. Computes aircraft weight and balance to ensure specified limits are maintained. Computes takeoff, climb, cruise, and landing data. Determines engine fuel consumption using airspeed, atmospheric data, charts, computer, or electronic calculator. Records actual aircraft performance data in flight engineer's log. Operates and monitors engine and aircraft systems controls and indicators. Assists pilot or performs engine starts, and monitors run-up, flight operations, and engine shutdown. Operates engine controls to provide desired efficiency and economy. Monitors engine instruments throughout period of operation. Controls, monitors, and regulates aircraft systems such as electric, communication, navigation, hydraulic, pneudraulic, fuel, air conditioning, and pressurization; ventilation; auxiliary power unit; and lubrication systems. Observes warning indicators and light for fire, overheat, depressurization, and system failure. Reports abnormal conditions to pilot, and recommends corrective action. Perform duties as gunner, hoist operator, and cargo sling operator. Plans and organizes flight engineer activities. Organizes flight engineering standardization, qualification, and other requirements of flight engineer logs, reports, and records for accuracy, completeness, format, and compliance with current directives. Coordinates with other agencies and organizations to conduct flight engineer activities. Directs flight engineer activities. Administers qualification flight to personnel engaged in flight engineer activities within flight test and operations organizations. Directs standardization of flight engineer performance in conjunction with aircraft performance engineering, engine conditioning, and preventive maintenance programs. Ensures conformance with prescribed aircrew procedures. Inspects and evaluates flight engineer activities. Evaluates individual and group performance in terms of effectiveness and qualification in using equipment and materials. Interprets and discusses evaluation findings, and recommends action to correct deficiencies. Performs technical flight engineer functions. Resolves technical problems encountered by operating units. Renders advice and technical assistance to agencies engaged in functions associated with flight engineer activities. Advises organizational commander or staff agencies on status of flight engineer activities and adequacy of equipment. Maintains qualification in aircraft.