Job Code: 1A2X1

Description:
Receives cargo/passenger load briefing and reviews load plan and cargo documentation. Accomplishes load planning of cargo/passenger loads if required. Reviews aircraft forms for condition of aircraft. Accomplishes preflight inspection of aerospace ground equipment and applies external power to the aircraft. Operates aircraft radio systems. Accomplishes pre-flight inspection of the aircraft and cargo/airdrop systems according to flight manual procedures. Supervises cargo/passenger loading and off-loading operations. Directs the placement of material handling equipment to accomplish cargo on/off loading operations. Operates the aircraft winch to on/offload cargo. Ensures cargo/passengers are placed according to load plans. Determines cargo restrains requirements according to criteria and directs and checks the application of cargo restraint equipment. Checks cargo/passenger loads against manifests. Ensures availability of fleet service equipment and passenger comfort items. Receives and signs receipts for and stows in-flight meals. Accomplishes passenger briefings to include the use of emergency equipment, evacuation procedures, and border clearance requirements. Demonstrates the use of passenger emergency oxygen systems and life vests. Computes and completes aircraft weight and balance documentation either manually or electronically. Accomplishes in-flight checks according to flight manual procedures. Monitors cargo and provides for passenger comfort. Prepares and dispenses passenger meals, snacks and refreshments. Completes required aircraft forms documentation and border clearance requirements. Airdrop qualified Loadmasters only: Conducts cargo and personnel airdrops according to directives. Attaches extraction parachutes to cargo and platforms. Inspects cargo and platforms, extraction systems and connects static lines. Checks tiedowns, parachutes, containers, suspension systems, and extraction systems to ensure proper cargo extraction or release. Operates aircraft airdrop systems and supervises cargo and paratroopers exiting the aircraft.

Knowledge of types, capacities, and configuration of transport aircraft; weight and balance factors, arithmetic; cargo restraint techniques; emergency equipment and in-flight emergency procedures; using personal equipment and oxygen, communications; current flying directives; interpreting diagrams, loading charts, and applicable technical publications; border agency clearance requirements and forms; principles of dispensing and preserving food aboard aircraft; operation of cargo loading equipment; and cargo and personnel airdrop techniques and equipment. experience in types, capacities, and configuration of transport aircraft; airdrop techniques; weight and balance factors; arithmetic; emergency equipment and in-flight emergency procedures; personal equipment and oxygen use; communications; current flying directives; interpreting diagrams, loading charts, and applicable technical publications; border agency clearance requirements and forms; principles of dispensing and preserving food aboard aircraft; and cargo restraint techniques.