Job Code: 1A451D

Description:
Performs as a mission crew aircrew member employing manual and computer-assisted active and passive airborne-based sensor systems to acquire and track airborne, maritime, and ground objects. Uses operational procedures in accordance with unified combatant command or theater rules of engagement to reconnoiter and detect, recognize, and identify objects or targets; and coordinates with manned airborne weapons platforms or indigenous fire control systems to ensure target engagement. Performs procedural or sensor-assisted activities directing manned air or ground weapons engagements. Employs electronic warfare (EW) and electronic support measures (ESM) techniques and procedures. Gathers, records, displays, and disseminates mission, track, target location, battle management, and weapons status information. Operates and manages secure and unsecure communications nets with airborne and ground agencies. Performs mission planning activities. Observes and compiles crewmember, mission and equipment data for postmission reports and analysis.

Performs duties as a mission crew aircrew member employing manual and computer-assisted active and passive airborne-based sensor systems to acquire, identify, and track airborne, maritime, and ground objects. Displays, interprets and discriminates between valid and invalid targets using synthetic aperture radar, low-light television imagery, computer-generated digital radar returns, electronic identification features, thermal, infrared, or other active or passive acquisition and tracking systems. Provides continuous and accurate object position location for battle management information data bases or active engagement and reconnaissance.   Uses operational procedures in accordance with unified combatant command or theater rules of engagement to reconnoiter and detect, recognize, and identify objects or targets; and coordinates with manned airborne weapons platforms or indigenous fire control systems to ensure target engagement. Coordinates and exchanges object or target movement and identification information with allied units within and external to assigned battlespace. Maintains external communications links with defensive and offensive air, ground, and naval fire units; and special operations forces to ensure safe passage or fire support of allied forces. Coordinates with air traffic and airspace control agencies ensuring safe aircraft departure, en rout e flight and recovery operations.   Performs procedural or sensor-assisted activities to direct weapons engagements. Performs continuous search and provides navigation inputs to correctly position the aircraft or external manned aircraft to acquire, track, and identify targets and friendly positions. Provides command, control, and critical mission-related information to allied aircraft or ground units conducting missions such as offensive and defensive counter-air, interdiction, close air support, combat search and rescue, combat air patrol, reconnaissance, direct action, suppression of enemy air defenses, aerial refueling rendezvous, counter-insurgency, counter narcotics, surveillance, humanitarian relief, noncombatant evacuation and special operations support. Determines and employs various intercept or engagement tactics. Fires gunship weapons on valid targets or targets of opportunity. Responsible for safety of flight of allied air assets under direct operational control, safety of ground forces when working in the close air support troops-in-contact air support role and limiting collateral damage.   Employs electronic warfare (EW) and electronic support measures (ESM) techniques and procedures. Uses electronic protect (EP) techniques to degrade effectiveness of electronic attack (EA) or external interference. Recommends procedures and techniques to improve EP effectiveness. Configures equipment to eliminate or reduce effects of EW. Employs ESM and external intelligence collection sources to assist in passive detection, tracking, and identification. Gathers, records, displays and disseminates mission, track, target location, battle management and weapons status information. Relays threat warning and real-time broadcast intelligence information to aircrews and other agencies. Transmits weapons release conditions to manned air weapons. Receives, verifies, and disseminates valid target and battle damage assessment. Uses different coordinate reference systems to report target or track location and maintains accurate situational and tabular displays or data bases while also maintaining situational awareness.   Operates and manages secure and unsecure communications nets with airborne and ground agencies. Coordinates with airborne, ground, and maritime agencies in distributing and relaying operational, threat, intelligence, video, and identification data via voice or data link systems.   Performs mission planning activities. Plans for operational missions in accordance with unified combatant command or theater rules of engagement. Operates mission planning ancillar

Experience in functions such as target detecting, tracking, reporting target information or, receiving, displaying, recording, and relaying threat command, control, and intelligence data from airborne battle management system functions and activities.   For the weapons director job Mission ready certification as a weapons director.   Also, experience performing or supervising, or airborne battle management system functions and activities.   Experience required for annual qualification and certification as a mission ready weapons controller.

Experience in managing airborne battle management system functions and activities.