Job Code: 1B000

Description:
Manages system analysis and design, programming, systems operation and maintenance, resource management and security management. Directs activities for installing, maintaining, repairing, overhauling, deploying, and modifying cyberspace systems and equipment platforms. In addition, manages and directs network warfare operations in garrison and at deployed locations by performing duties to develop, sustain, and enhance network and electromagnetic capabilities to defend national interests from attack and to create effects in the cyberspace domain to achieve national objectives. Ensures personnel are trained, equipped, and available to perform the assigned mission.

Plans and organizes operations and software activities. Plans and supervises system installation, and evaluates facilities layout. Evaluates performance standards. Designs and develops organizational structures, and determines equipment, training, and supplies required for systems implementation and support. Interacts with customers to promote customer satisfaction. Establishes tactics, techniques and procedures. Executes operations plans to ensure positive control of assigned forces. Evaluates operational readiness of communications, sensors, intrusion detection, and related support equipment. Directs activities responsible for system analysis and design, programming, operations and maintenance, security, systems management, technical support, and resource management. Implements and interprets policies, directives, and procedures. Establishes training requirements. Establishes training programs to meet local knowledge and certification requirements and to enhance professional awareness of technology. Inspects and evaluates compliance with directives. Evaluates, rates, and prepares reports. Recommends and implements corrective action for improved methods and procedures. Evaluates effectiveness of equipment usage, systems performance, customer service, supplies, and system scheduling, processing, and maintenance. Plans, programs, and develops budget inputs to ensure resource availability for operational requirements. Manages development functions. Helps functional users define requirements. Recommends automated methods to enhance resource use. Supervises functional user requirements translation into automated systems capabilities. Organizes software development teams that use software methodologies. Oversees database design to optimize collecting and retrieving information. Supervises test and evaluation efforts to determine errors in logic, information flow, and system performance. Organizes and participates in implementation and conversion. Ensures continued interface between functional users, and programming and operations personnel for implemented systems. Ensures compliance with standards for systems software and documentation.