Job Code: 1B053

Description:
Supervises or operates fixed and deployed information technology (IT) and telecommunications resources to monitor, evaluate and maintain systems, policy and procedures to protect clients, networks, data/voice systems and databases from unauthorized activity. Identifies potential threats and manages resolution of security violations. Enforces national, DoD and Air Force security policies and directives; employs hardware and software tools to enhance the security by installing, monitoring and directing proactive and reactive information protection and defensive measures to ensure Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA) of IT resources. Administers and manages the overall Information Assurance (IA) program to include Communications Security (COMSEC), Emissions Security (EMSEC) and Computer Security (COMPUSEC) programs.

Provides mission critical voice, data and video services. Installs, upgrades, replaces, configures and maintains systems/circuits that access military, Federal and commercial networks. Manages infrastructure devices and systems using the latest approved software tools. Deploys and operates expeditionary communications systems. Uses agile logistics support channels to sustain continuous network operations. Removes, repairs and replaces assemblies and subassemblies to optimally sustain voice, data and video networks. Establishes priorities, maintains, tests, troubleshoots, and repairs network systems equipment and circuits utilizing tools and test equipment. Isolates malfunctions using diagnostic software, technical data, block diagrams, voltage and waveform measurements, and other tests requiring specialized test equipment.  Monitors performance of systems and circuits. Coordinates with coalition forces, DoD agencies and other service providers to analyze and isolate performance faults and implement corrective actions. Checks equipment for serviceability and performs preventive maintenance. Isolates faults by coordinating with commercial service providers and depots to test system components and assemblies.  Maintains and administers network and circuit databases, records and forms. Interprets sketches and layout drawings for placement of distribution systems. Coordinates request for service orders. Reviews, recommends, and implements changes to communications-computer systems installations records (CSIR), technical data, engineering drawings, and equipment wiring diagrams. Updates and verifies entries on system, facility, maintenance, and inspection records. Initiates, tracks, and maintains shipping, receiving, supply, and equipment documents. Conducts periodic inspections of systems installations and repair activities. Interprets inspection reports and implements corrective actions, documents inspection and maintenance actions. Reviews and maintains operational measurement reports and analyzes network utilization. Ensures equipment and components meet installation practice technical order and accepted commercial installation specifications. Applies communications security programs to include physical, cryptographic, transmission, and emission security. Develops and ensures compliance with safety standards and instructions.

Experience performing IA functions and/or activities and supervising IA functions and/or activities.