Job Code: 1C0X2

Description:
Performs and manages aviation and parachutist Host Aviation Resource Management (HARM) and Squadron Aviation Resource Management (SARM) functions related to scheduling, standardization and evaluation, flying and ground training, aviation flight records, parachutist jump records and squadron operations.  Operates and maintains the Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS).

Interprets public law, plans, organizes, and directs aircrew and parachutist resource activities.  Reviews aviation mission accomplishment reports for accuracy.  Initiates actions to support aviation management policies and procedures, and conducts aircrew and parachutist interviews.  Prepares and processes aeronautical and military pay orders and flight authorizations. Performs aviation and parachutist resource management functions.  Monitors flight physicals, physiological training, aircrew qualifications, and other aircrew and parachutist-related programs.  Schedules aircrew training and aircraft sorties, and maintains mission information.  Monitors individual flight requirements, unit flying hours, and aviation requirement changes. Maintains control and accountability for ARMS data.  Controls security access to ARMS data interfaces, and advises on matters pertaining to ARMS requirements and modifications. Inspects and evaluates production and maintenance of aviation flight and parachutist jump records, files, and reports.  Evaluates completed work and group performance.  Ensures functional directives are accurate and complete.  Reviews aviation resource management procedures and recommends changes.  Reviews trend analysis.

Experience in preparing and interpreting aviation and parachutist resource management policies and directives.

experience in functions such as scheduling aircrew training, and aircraft sorties, host aviation, or squadron aviation functions. Also, experience in performing or supervising functions such as aircrew scheduling, aviation flight and parachutist jump records maintenance, or maintaining ARMS.