Job Code: 1C531C

Description:
Manages and operates aerospace control and warning systems, including functions involving surveillance, identification, weapons control, data link management, communications and computer system management, electronic attack (EA) and electronic protection (EP). Provides radar control and monitoring of air weapons during offensive and defensive air operations. Makes decision in the conduct of air operations and in system equipment management. Shredout: D-Weapons Director

Operates aerospace control and warning systems equipment. Interprets and reacts to radarscope presentation and to generated console displays. Compares and reports track positions based on flight data or database files. Performs surveillance, identification, weapons control, data link, and data management functions. Conducts mission planning. Prepares and executes air tasking orders and airspace control orders. Participates as a crewmember of an operational unit. Responsible for safety of flight for air operations being controlled. Tears down, loads, unloads, and erects equipment and components. Gathers, displays, records, and distributes operational information. Coordinates with and exchanges air movement and identification information among air defense, air control, range control, and air traffic control agencies on matters pertaining to aircraft operations. Operates data link equipment and other automated data exchange devices to gather and relay operation information. Reports emergency signals and EA observations. Maintains logs, forms, and database files. Evaluates radar detection and performance. Maintains liaison with air defense artillery, and surface and naval fire units to ensure safe passage of friendly air traffic. Performs EP functions. Maintains maximum radar sensitivity using EP techniques to eliminate degradation caused by electronic warfare (EW) activities or other influences. Monitors operation of radar inputs and countermeasure consoles, anti-jamming displays, and radar sensors to enhance radar presentations. Performs training, planning, standardization and evaluation, and other staff duty functions. Performs staff assistance visits to subordinate units. Tests and evaluates capabilities of new equipment and propriety of new procedures.

Experience performing operational functions or aerospace control and warning systems activities; operations of data display and computer input equipment or radar indicator equipment; interpretation of computer generated displays and printouts or radar console presentations of environmental systems operational procedures and techniques. Also, experience performing Weapons Director duties.

Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as aerospace surveillance and control systems, or EA and EP activities. Also, experience performing or supervising radar control and monitoring of air weapons.