Job Code: 1C751

Description:
Supervises and performs airfield management functions and activities. Coordinates with aircrews, air traffic control, and various base agencies that provide for safe operation of aircraft in the airfield environment and through national and international airspace.

Experience in functions such as: flight data processing, NOTAM processing, emergency response actions, and maintaining flight information data and supportive displays. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as: airfield inspections, coordination of airfield construction or repairs, processing airfield waivers, or conducting airfield surveys of non-DoD airfields for use of USAF aircraft

Procures, maintains, and produces information on safe operation of aircraft through the national and international airspace system. Information includes flight plans, Flight Information Publications, aeronautical charts and maps, Notice to Airmen (NOTAM), local airfield and navigational aid status, and weather information. Directs, assists, and provides aircrews with information and services to accomplish operational activities relating to airfield management and flight planning. Coordinates with base agencies to meet aircrew requirements for billeting, messing, refueling, transportation, and transient aircraft maintenance. Inspects airfields. Plans and coordinates airfield construction. Ensures a safe operating environment for personnel and aircraft operation. Performs mobile airfield management functions and activities for worldwide deployment of USAF aircraft. Performs and supervises airfield management activities. Coordinates with agencies such as air traffic control, civil engineers, and command post to ensure support of airfield management activities.

Experience managing functions such as airfield management activities, preparing or reviewing policies and directives for airfield management or ensuring coordination with agencies to improve airfield management functions.