Job Code: 1N032

Description:
Performs/manages intelligence activities/functions including developing, evaluating, and providing intelligence information.

Supports all aspects of Air Force operations by collating, analyzing, evaluating and disseminating intelligence information. Produces all-source intelligence, situation estimates, order-of-battle studies, and other intelligence reports and studies. Advises commanders on force protection and intelligence information for US and allied forces. Conducts intelligence debriefings of US and allied military personnel involved in combat operations. Prepares mission reports. Conducts intelligence training. Instructs aircrews, security forces, explosive ordinance disposal and others on collecting and reporting requirements and procedures, recognition techniques, and assessing offensive and defensive weapon system capabilities. Assist SERE (Survival Evasion Resistance and Escape) and Life Support personnel in training evasion and recovery and code of conduct, when necessary. Collates intelligence and operations materials, and assembles final product for mission briefing, study, and use. Produces intelligence materials. Prepares, maintains, and presents intelligence displays, reports and briefings. Compiles, evaluates, researches, interprets, analyzes, and disseminates intelligence information. Assembles maps, charts, and target materials. Establishes intelligence collection requirements. Uses automated and non-automated systems applications. Identifies and establishes unit requirements for intelligence reference materials. Maintains intelligence reference files, automated intelligence databases, and target materials data logs. Uses intelligence automated data systems to store, retrieve, display, and report intelligence information. Performs mission planning and execution support. Provides tailored collections planning, threat analysis, and intelligence expertise necessary to develop detailed execution plans for aerospace operations. Provides current situational awareness and Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) management for the execution of the Air Tasking Order (ATO), Integrated Tasking Order (ITO), or Space Tasking Order (STO). Analyzes intelligence to support military operations and targeting. Performs targeting functions to include target development, weaponeering, force application, execution planning, and combat assessment. Performs geo-locational mensuration functions. Maintains and uses geospatial databases, target materials, imagery, and other intelligence products. Extracts coordinates and positional relationships from digital database systems. Prepares strip charts and annotates navigational information. Support to Force Protection (FP). Provides FP intelligence support to commanders and their staffs through current, all-source intelligence products and briefings, focusing on terrorist capabilities, tactics, trends, courses of action and ongoing threat situation in the unit's Area of Interest or Area of Responsibility. Analyzes incoming intelligence for FP value and impact. Ensures FP is addressed in current intelligence briefings, pre-mission, and pre-deployment briefings. Provides guidance for unit-level FP-related intelligence external and internal training. Participates in the installation-level Threat Working Group (TWG). Develops realistic terrorist threat scenarios for wing and unit exercises. Responsible for providing FP for in-garrison, in-transit, and deployed units. Assesses vulnerabilities of US aerospace forces' telecommunications networks/information which may/could be collected and exploited by adversaries; systematically assesses data using analytical procedures to document threats, isolate existing/potential vulnerabilities, identify procedures for minimizing/eliminating vulnerabilities, and recommend Information Operations (IO) techniques to exploit vulnerabilities to a friendly advantage.