Job Code: 1N5X1

Description:
Performs and manages electronic signals intelligence exploitation activities and functions. Operates electronic monitoring, analysis, and related equipment. Analyzes, processes, and derives intelligence from electromagnetic transmissions.

Conducts signals intelligence (SIGINT) activities and operations. Performs operator and analyst duties to exploit electronic intelligence (ELINT), foreign instrumentation signals intelligence (FISINT), and PROFORMA activities. Employs signals exploitation activities to support electronic warfare (EW) operations.  Operates electronic search and related equipment. Searches and exploits signal activity throughout the radio frequency spectrum. Operates electromagnetic receiving and recording systems to monitor, acquire, collect, and exploit electronmagnetic transmissions.   Performs and oversees signals collection and analysis functions. Analyzes electromagnetic transmission characteristics. Determines line of bearing or origin point, external characteristics, and parameters of electromagnetic transmissions. Operates signals analysis and data processing equipment. Extracts data from electromagnetic signals and reports results. Evaluates electromagnetic transmission exploitation to ensure characteristics are accurately determined, documented and reported.   Develops and maintains automated databases and operational logs. Records equipment status, signals characteristics, and analytical findings.   Prepares and evaluates reports. Assembles operational and technical information. Performs quality control. Inspects and evaluates SIGINT, ELINT, FISINT, PROFORMA, and EW support activities. Performs fusion analysis.   Plans, organizes, and directs electromagnetic signals exploitation activities. Manages allotted resources for SIGINT, ELINT, FISINT, PROFORMA, and EW operations and analysis activities. Identifies responsibilities for overseeing operations, intelligence analysis, and data reduction functions. Plans operations and analysis functions and devises techniques to improve operations.

experience performing functions such as collecting, interpreting, analyzing, and reporting electromagnetic transmissions.

experience performing or supervising functions such as collecting, interpreting, analyzing, and reporting electromagnetic transmissions.