Job Code: 1N631

Description:
Emulates the role of a hostile intelligence service (HOIS) by collecting, analyzing, and processing Department of Defense (DoD) telecommunications, such as: telephone, computer-to-computer (C2C), facsimile, radio, and wireless transmissions. Applies analytical processes and determines critical information potentially compromised and exploited by HOIS threats. Peacetime support focuses on identifying adverse operations security (OPSEC) trends and practices. Contingency and exercise support focuses on force protection. Supervises Electronic System Security Assessment (ESSA) operations, including initial and in-depth analysis of monitored friendly telecommunications. Performs analysis and reporting functions at theater level ESSA Centrals (ESSAC). Briefs commanders at all levels of potential intelligence vulnerabilities.

Monitors, processes, analyzes, and reports friendly telecommunications vulnerabilities. Applies OPSEC/ESSA techniques to collected and processed data, identifying deficiencies and weaknesses. Receives, records, and correlates collected telecommunications data on which preliminary processing and analysis has been performed. Evaluates results of ESSA activities in terms of accuracy, relative mission priority, and bearing on overall OPSEC patterns or trends.  Leads and directs theater-wide ESSA operations in support of the Air Force's core competency - Information Superiority. Supports Air Force Defensive Counterinformation (DCI) efforts and activities. Collects and reports specific DCI events per Air Force guidance.   Compiles and maintains databases. Establishes database requirements and maintains data on military and related operations, telecommunication vulnerabilities, and threat information. Applies data automation to ESSA mission procedures and products to improve operational capabilities.   Prepares reports. Assembles information and prepares ESSA reports in either immediate or summary format. Prepares reports reflecting telecommunication weaknesses and trends, and recommends measures to counter or protect communications weaknesses. Prepares and distributes reports on hostile intelligence threats, communications vulnerability, and prepares and presents briefings on same. Evaluates finished reports and provides assistance to formulate effective corrective actions to problem areas.   Develops and executes plans and concepts for participating in ESSA and operations. Develops new collection, processing, and analysis procedures. Devises procedures and systems to meet changing telecommunications requirements. Prepares specifications for assessment of designated communication nodes. Develops procedures to compile, correlate, evaluate, and report telecommunications data. Evaluates plans and concepts developed for planner or executor participation in ESSA and operations.