Job Code: 1S051

Description:
Manages and conducts safety programs. Plans, organizes, directs, and controls safety activities. Analyzes mishap causes and trends, and assesses risk. Evaluates, inspects, and surveys areas and activities to eliminate mishap potentials. Conducts mishap investigations. Provides risk management consultation. Conducts safety education.

Experience in functions such as conducting safety programs, assisting in performing inspections and investigations, training principles, or risk assessment techniques. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1S051. Also, experience performing or supervising functions related to safety activities.

Plans, organizes, and directs safety activities. Develops policies and procedures for implementing and evaluating safety programs. Coordinates with staff activities and operational sections to ensure safety requirements are integrated into the organization program. Maintains close liaison with federal, state, municipal, and private agencies sharing common safety concerns. Establishes work priorities and maintains systems to effect accomplishment of program processes. Arranges for group meetings or individual instruction through coordination with commanders and supervisors. Conducts and assists in managing safety programs. Evaluates safety program effectiveness. Coordinates with agencies and staff activities on safety related matters. Prepares and conducts briefings, meetings, training classes, and associated functions. Determines safety education requirements for groups or individuals. Develops training plans to ensure worker qualification and training. Prepares and conducts training programs for collateral duty safety personnel. Performs inspections, surveys, and program evaluations of areas and operations to identify mishap potentials and assess integration of risk management approach, safety equipment, and procedures. Performs periodic and special inspections of facilities, flightlines, maintenance, and industrial areas; missile launch complexes and support functions; munitions facilities and operations; and non-industrial and recreational areas. Reports findings, assigns risk assessment codes, recommends corrective actions, and conducts follow-up inspections. Participates in Hazardous Communication, Environmental Compliance Assessment Management Program, and other environmental programs. Reviews explosives quantity distance waivers and deviations, and processes hazardous air traffic reports. Reviews purchase, service, and construction contracts. Prepares safety criteria. Reviews contract proposals, statements of work, local purchase orders, and work requests for inclusion of safety criteria. Participates in workload planning and preconstruction conferences, pre and post award meetings, and pre and final inspections. Reviews engineering plans and drawings. Reviews base master plans and site plans affecting construction, airfield, and explosive safety criteria. Recommends revision in drawing or rearranging materials. Performs and assists in mishap investigations, prepares reports, and maintains records. Gathers factual mishap data, identifies causes, and recommends corrective actions to prevent recurrence of a similar mishap. Maintains a follow-up system. Analyzes mishap data. Performs trend analysis and recommends measures to correct unfavorable conditions or procedures. Provides safety consultation to commanders, supervisors, and functional managers on technical directives, safety criteria, and operational techniques. Conducts safety education. Performs or assists in planning and scheduling safety education programs. Prepares or assists in preparing and distributing safety promotional and informative materials.

experience managing safety activities and functions.