Job Code: 1T071

Description:
Develops, conducts, and manages Air Force survival, evasion, resistance, and escape (SERE) programs. Develops, conducts, manages, and evaluates SERE Code of Conduct training (CoCT), Code of Conduct Continuation training (CoCCT), and combat search and rescue (CSAR) and personnel recovery (PR) operations. Conducts operational testing on and instructs the use of SERE related equipment. Performs and instructs basic, advanced, and emergency military parachuting. Coordinates SERE activities and conducts observer and controller duties during CSAR/PR exercises.

Experience teaching and applying global SERE principles, procedures, techniques, and equipment; emergency parachuting procedures; living under primitive conditions; survival medicine; rough land travel and evacuation procedures; land and water navigation and travel; use of post-egress survival and life support equipment; PR JTTP; escape and evasion techniques; combat communication, signaling, and recovery procedures; CSAR operations; survival in nuclear, chemical, and biological contamination conditions; and conduct after capture during wartime, peacetime governmental detention, and hostage detention guidance including survival adaptations, communication, organization, resistance to exploitation, and escape TTPs.  Also, experience in performing or supervising SERE functions and training activities.

Experience in managing and directing SERE operations and training programs.

Plans, organizes, directs, and conducts SERE training activities. Designs and develops curriculum, functional structure, and procedures for SERE CoCT and CoCCT courses and programs. Determines training schedules according to course control documents, directives, policies, and instructional principles. Ensures student safety. Conducts classroom, laboratory, and operational training. Uses lecture, demonstration and performance, guided discussion, and time and circumstance instructional methodology. Conducts training under conditions closely approximating actual SERE episodes. Training environments and scenarios include, but are not limited to, global environmental conditions, combat situations, and the full spectrum of captivity environments. Develops SERE joint tactics, techniques, and procedures (JTTP). Supports operational tasking for theater and Joint Forces Commanders. Functions as in-theater SERE and PR subject matter expert (SME). Manages development and coordination of SERE and CSAR and PR operational support programs. Manages SERE programs including isolated personnel reports, evasion plans of action, blood chits, evasion charts, and PR aids. Augments Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC) and Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell (PRCC) as SERE and PR SME. Assists in developing theater PR CONOPS and recommends changes. Instructs and performs static line, military free fall, and emergency parachuting techniques. Conducts test parachuting operations including SERE related survival and aircrew flight equipment, personnel parachutes, and aircraft jump platform certification. Demonstrates emergency parachute procedures for SERE CoCT and CoCCT students. Coordinates SERE activities to support CSAR related exercises. Performs observer and controller duties for high-risk-of-isolation personnel to ensure safety of exercise participants, ensure appropriate learning outcomes for CSAR forces and exercise participants, and document lessons learned from exercise events.  Inspects and evaluates SERE training and CSAR and PR operational support activities. Evaluates SERE CoCT and CoCCT courses and programs. Determines readiness and efficacy of equipment, supplies, and training aids. Ensures standardization and compliance with policies, directives, course control documents, ORM procedures, operational guidance, and instructional methodology.