Job Code: 1U091

Description:
Performs duties as a mission crew member on unmanned aerospace systems. Employs airborne sensors in manual or computer-assisted modes to actively and/or passively acquire, track, and monitor airborne, maritime and ground objects. Qualified personnel conduct operations and procedures IAW Special Instructions (SPINS), Air Tasking Orders (ATO) and Rules of Engagement (ROE). Crewmembers assist UAS pilots through all phases of employment to include mission planning, flight operations, and debriefings. Continually monitors aircraft and weapons systems status to ensure lethal and non-lethal application of airpower.

Conducts reconnaissance and surveillance of potential targets and areas of interest. Detects, analyzes and discriminates between valid and invalid targets using synthetic aperture radar, electro-optical, low-light, and infrared full-motion video imagery, and other active or passive acquisition and tracking systems. Assists in air navigation, Air Order of Battle (AOB) integration, fire control planning, and determining effective weapons control and delivery tactics to achieve overall mission objectives. Receives target briefs (9-liners) for weapons delivery. Conducts immediate first phase Battle Damage Assessments (BDA) for up-channel coordination and potential reattach. Operator utilizes laser target marking systems to provide target identification and illumination for onboard weapons delivery, and in support of other combat assets. Individual is also responsible for terminal weapons guidance. Performs pre-flight and in-flight mission planning activities in accordance with unified combatant command and theater rules of engagement. Qualified operator must understand tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) for friendly and enemy AOB assets. They also operate mission planning ancillary equipment to initialize information for download to airborne mission systems. Receives, interprets, extracts, and disseminates relevant ATO, Airspace Control Order (ACO) and SPINs information. Participates in post-flight debriefing to establish mission accomplishments and potential procedural development. Researches and studies target imagery, friendly and enemy orders of battle, and offensive and defensive capabilities from various sources. Assembles target information, locates forces, and determines hostile intentions and possible tactics. Conducts initial, qualification, upgrade and continuation training for mission crew members. Individuals perform training, planning, standardization and evaluation, and other staff duty functions. Performs staff assistance visits to subordinate units. Tests and evaluates capabilities of new equipment and propriety of new procedures.