Job Code: 2A372

Description:
Maintains CV-22, F-16, F-117, MQ-9, and RQ-4 avionics systems and F-22, F-35, and MQ-1 avionics and electrical & environmental (A&E) systems at the organizational level. Troubleshoots, inspects, removes, installs, repairs, modifies, and operates aircraft A&E systems, components, and associated support equipment. Performs and supervises general aircraft servicing and handling procedures. Shredouts:   A F-22, F-35  B CV-22, F-16, F-117, MQ-1, MQ-9, RQ-4

Inspects, troubleshoots, operates, and maintains aircraft avionics or A&E systems, subsystems, components, and test equipment using aircraft controls, displays, and portable maintenance aid (PMA) to determine operational condition. Interprets equipment operating characteristics to isolate malfunctions in systems such as: attack control, core processing, radar, infrared, laser, controls and displays, flight controls, vehicle management, communication, navigation, identification, satellite communications, electronic warfare (EW), electrical power and distribution, gas turbine compressor, auxiliary power, landing gear, anti-skid, nose wheel steering, lighting, fire and overheat warning, fire extinguishing, fuel indicating, liquid cooling, air conditioning, bleed air, cabin pressure, auxiliary pressurization, oxygen, and aircraft utility systems. Uses technical data to trace wiring diagrams and signal data flow. Uses integrated diagnostics, built in test functions, electronic measuring equipment, aerospace ground equipment (AGE), support equipment (SE), and hand tools. Removes and installs systems components. Performs and supervises alignment, calibration, modifications, and boresight of avionics or A&E systems. Uploads operational software into systems components. Removes and installs line replaceable modules (LRMs), line replaceable units (LRUs), and other systems components. Enters maintenance data into automated systems. Inspects, analyzes, and evaluates avionics or A&E systems to determine operational status. Interprets inspection findings and determines adequacy of corrective actions. Reviews maintenance management publications and procedures. Recommends methods of improved equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Ensures compliance with technical publications and directives.

Experience in installing line replaceable modules/units, practical use of system theory, experience in maintaining avionics or A&E systems, and utilizing AGE necessary to maintain avionics or A&E systems. Also, experience in isolating malfunctions, and performing or supervising functions such as malfunction analysis or installation of avionics or A&E systems.

See collateral duty