Job Code: 2A371

Description:
Isolates malfunctions and repairs and inspects A-10, F-15, and U-2 integrated avionics systems at organizational levels. Inspects, services, and performs general aircraft handling procedures.

E-9 is a collateral duty as the superintendent

Experience in functions such as isolating malfunctions, installing line replaceable units, and using AGE necessary to maintain avionics systems. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A351. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, maintaining, or inspecting A-10, F-15, or U-2 avionics systems.

Identifies and isolates A-10, F-15, and U-2 integrated avionics systems malfunctions, and analyzes performance. Operates integrated avionics systems to determine operational condition. Interprets equipment operation to isolate malfunctions in systems such as attack control, instrument, flight control, communications, navigation, and penetration aids. Traces data flow and wiring diagrams. Inspects, troubleshoots, and maintains aircraft wiring systems. Uses built-in test functions, electronic measuring equipment, support aerospace ground equipment (AGE), and hand tools. Monitors equipment performance and detects and analyzes malfunctions. Removes, installs, aligns, and checks integrated avionics systems. Removes and installs line replaceable units and aligns systems. Operationally checks externally mounted avionics equipment. Boresights systems. Performs intermediate or organizational maintenance level modifications. Inspects integrated avionics systems, posts entries, and maintains inspection and maintenance records. Inspects avionics systems and determines operational status. Interprets inspection findings and determines corrective action adequacy. Reviews maintenance management publications and procedures to obtain avionics systems information. Recommends methods to improve equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Uses automated maintenance systems. Inputs, validates, and analyzes data processed to automated systems. Clears and closes out completed maintenance discrepancies in automated maintenance systems.