Job Code: 2A393

Description:
Maintains tactical aircraft, support equipment, and forms and records. Performs and supervises flight chief, expediter, crew chief, repair and reclamation, quality assurance, and maintenance support functions.      A F-15  B F-16/F-117  E A-10  F MQ-1, MQ-9, RQ-4  H U-2  K F-22/F-35

Services aircraft. Performs end-of-runway, postflight, preflight, thru-flight, special inspections and phase inspections. Performs sortie generation operations and hot pit refuels. Advises on problems maintaining, servicing, and inspecting aircraft and related aerospace equipment. Uses conventional or automated technical data to diagnose and solve maintenance problems on aircraft systems. Interprets and advises on maintenance procedures and policies to repair aircraft and related equipment. Troubleshoots and maintains aircraft engines, hydraulic, and other related systems, structures, components, and related equipment. Removes and installs aircraft and engine components. Conducts functional tests of repaired engines, components, and systems. Adjusts, aligns, and rigs aircraft systems. Supervises and performs aircraft jacking, lifting, and towing operations. Inspects aircraft structures, engines, systems, components, and related systems. Supervises and performs aircraft, engine and component inspections. Interprets inspection findings and determines adequacy of corrective actions. Inspects and checks components for clearances, tolerances, proper installation, and operation. Inspects and operates powered and nonpowered aerospace ground equipment. Inspects and identifies aircraft corrosion for prevention and repair. Reviews maintenance forms, aircraft records, automated maintenance data systems, and historical reports to ensure complete documentation. Inventories and maintains aircraft equipment. Performs flight chief, production superintendent, expediter, crew chief, repair and reclamation, and maintenance support functions. Coordinates maintenance plans and schedules to meet operational commitments. Supervises and assists in launching and recovering aircraft. Reviews maintenance data collection summaries to determine trends and production effectiveness. Performs crash recovery duties. Performs staff and supervisory management functions.

experience in functions such as repairing and maintaining aircraft or related installed equipment. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, inspecting, repairing, or overhauling aircraft structures, systems, and components.

See collateral Duty