Job Code: 2A571

Description:
Maintains aircraft, support equipment (SE), and forms and records. Performs production supervisor, flight chief, expediter, crew chief, support, aero repair, and maintenance functions.

Experience in functions such as repairing and maintaining aircraft or related installed equipment. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A551. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, repairing, inspecting, or overhauling aircraft structures, systems, and components.

Advises on problems maintaining, servicing, and inspecting aircraft and aerospace SE. Uses technical data to diagnose and solve maintenance problems on aircraft systems. Interprets and advises on maintenance procedures and policies to repair aircraft and SE. Troubleshoots and maintains aircraft structures, systems, components, and SE. Tests repaired components using mockups and test equipment. Adjusts, aligns, rigs, and calibrates aircraft systems. Performs engine run-up. Accomplishes weight and balance functions. Jacks, tows, and services aircraft. Inspects aircraft structures, systems, components, and SE. Supervises and performs aircraft and component inspections. Interprets inspection findings and determines adequacy of corrective actions. Inspects and checks components for clearances, tolerances, proper installation, and operation. Inspects and operates powered and nonpowered aerospace ground equipment. Inspects and identifies aircraft corrosion for prevention and correction. Reviews maintenance forms, aircraft records, and reports to ensure complete documentation. Inventories and maintains alternate mission equipment. Performs production supervisor, flight chief, expediter, crew chief, aero repair, support, and maintenance functions. Coordinates maintenance plans to meet operational commitments. Supervises and assists in launching and recovering aircraft. Reviews maintenance data collection summaries to determine trends and production effectiveness. Performs crash recovery duties. Performs staff and supervisory management functions. Shredouts:  A C-9/C-20/C-21/C-22/T-39/T-43  B C-12/C-26/C-27/C-130  C C-5  D C-17  E B-1/B-2  F B-52  G C-18/C-135/E-3/VC-25/VC-137  H KC-10/E-4