Job Code: 2A592

Description:
Performs and supervises helicopter or tiltrotor maintenance functions and activities. Inspects, repairs, maintains, and services aircraft and support equipment (SE). Maintains aircraft forms and records. Performs crew chief functions.  Shredouts:         A MH-53  B H-60  C H-1  D CV-22

See collateral duty

Experience in functions such as repairing and maintaining helicopter or tiltrotor aircraft systems, and powered and nonpowered ground SE. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, repairing, inspecting, maintaining, or overhauling helicopter or tiltrotor aircraft and systems, and powered and nonpowered ground SE

Troubleshoots, inspects, repairs, and services helicopter or tiltrotor aircraft, systems, and related equipment. Inspects and functionally checks aircraft structures and systems. Checks installed components for proper operation. Adjusts, aligns, and calibrates aircraft systems. Rigs, tracks, and balances rotor systems. Inspects for fuel leaks, corrosion, tire wear, skin damage, and cracks on aircraft. Accomplishes engine maintenance and ground handling tasks. Prepares and maintains inspection and maintenance records. Operates, inspects, and checks serviceability of powered and nonpowered ground SE. Inventories and inspects alternate mission equipment. Stores and prepares aircraft for shipment, and performs crash recovery. Prepares aircraft for movement to and from storage. Disassembles helicopters for shipment and reassembles. Removes disabled aircraft. Uses emergency recovery equipment. Advises on problems maintaining helicopters or tiltrotors and related SE. Uses technical orders to diagnose and solve maintenance problems on airframe and engine related systems. Interprets inspection findings and advises on maintenance procedures to repair aircraft and related equipment. Performs staff and supervisory management functions. Coordinates and adjusts individual and unit daily maintenance plans. Supervises and assists in launching and recovering aircraft. Ensures compliance with maintenance management directives. Initiates technical order deficiency and product quality deficiency reports. Reviews maintenance data collection summaries to determine trends, production effectiveness, and areas requiring corrective action.