Job Code: 2A651

Description:
Inspects, maintains, modifies, tests, and repairs propellers, turboprop and turboshaft engines, jet engines, small gas turbine engines, and engine ground support equipment (SE). Manages aerospace propulsion functions and activities.

Plans, organizes, and directs aerospace propulsion maintenance activities. Interprets and implements directives and publications pertaining to maintenance functions, including environmentally safe maintenance practices. Determines resource requirements, including facilities, equipment, and supplies. Inspects and evaluates maintenance activities. Advises, performs troubleshooting, performs engine health management, and determines repair procedures on aircraft engines. Diagnoses and repairs malfunctions using technical publications and Interactive Electronics Technical Manuals (IETMS). Solves maintenance problems by studying drawings, wiring and schematic diagrams, technical instructions, and analyzing operating characteristics of aircraft engines and propellers. Inspects, certifies, and approves completed maintenance actions. Removes, installs, inspects, repairs, and modifies engines, engine modules and components, and propellers and propeller components. Disassembles and assembles engines and propellers adhering to prescribed procedures. Prepares engines and propellers for installation, storage, or transportation. Tests components using bench mockups and test equipment. Installs and removes engines on test stands, and operates, evaluates, and performs test stand functions on engines. Accomplishes operator maintenance on test stands. Inspects and maintains engine ground SE. Operates and performs operator inspections on related SE. Selects, uses, and cares for special tools, hand tools, and test equipment. Uses and disposes of hazardous waste and materials. Analyzes, interprets, and recommends maintenance actions based on unscheduled engine removals and engine monitoring system data. Coordinates with the base engine manager to analyze scheduled engine removals; recommends forecast actions to the weekly or monthly maintenance schedules. Shreadouts:  B  Turboprop and Turboshaft Propulsion  C  TF33, CF6, F103, F108, F117, JT3D-3, JT8, TF34,             TF39, PW 2020 Jet Engines  D  F100, F119 Jet Engines  E  F101, F110, F118, F404, J85 Jet Engines

Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A671. Also, experience managing or directing repair activities for aerospace aircraft engines, propellers, and associated maintenance functions.

experience in functions such as installing, maintaining, or repairing aerospace aircraft jet engines. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A651. Also, experience performing or supervising functions involving installation, repair, testing, or modification of engines or propellers.