Job Code: 2A696

Description:
Performs and supervises aircraft electrical and environmental (E & E) functions and activities. Troubleshoots, inspects, removes, installs, repairs, modifies, overhauls, and operates aircraft E & E systems, components, and associated support equipment.

experience maintaining electrical, electronic, and environmental systems. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A656. Also, experience performing or supervising E & E maintenance.

See collateral duty

Inspects, troubleshoots, and maintains aircraft E & E systems, subsystems, components, and associated test equipment. E & E on-equipment systems include direct and alternating current; gas turbine compressors and auxiliary power units; landing gear, anti-skid, and nose wheel steering; electronic engine control, ignition, and starting; lighting; master caution and warning; take-off warning; flight control; cargo door and cargo delivery equipment; non-electro static application windows; anti-icing; fire and overheat warning; fire extinguishing and suppression; fuel control; liquid cooling; air conditioning, bleed air, cabin pressurization, and auxiliary pressurization; oxygen; and aircraft utility systems. Performs off-equipment maintenance on E & E system components and associated test equipment. Included are control, protection, caution, and warning panels; lighting equipment; frequency and load controls; anti-icing controllers; inverters; voltage regulators; nose wheel steering and anti-skid amplifiers; generators and integrated drive generators; actuators, relays, motors, and valves; lighting equipment; fire and overheat panels; fire extinguishing equipment; aircraft batteries; and special equipment testers. Performs cryogenic maintenance on mobile aircraft servicing units. Maintains electrical wiring and connectors. Uses electrical, electronic, pneumatic, and other test and support equipment. Maintains compressed gas equipment. Inspects and evaluates aircraft E & E maintenance activities. Determines operational status of assigned assets. Interprets inspection findings and determines corrective actions. Ensures compliance with technical publications and directives.