Job Code: 2A6X5

Description:
Troubleshoots, removes, repairs, overhauls, inspects, adjusts, installs, and tests aircraft hydraulic and IFR systems and components, including  support equipment (SE)

experience in functions such as removing and installing system components, performing operational checks, troubleshooting simple malfunctions using system schematics, and repairing hydraulic, mechanical, and electrical systems, components, and SE. 3.4.2.  2A675.  Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A655.  Also, experience performing or supervising maintenance functions in repair of aircraft hydraulic, mechanical, and electrical systems, components, and SE.

Advises on problems maintaining aircraft hydraulic systems.  Determines maintenance procedures and performance characteristics using technical publications.  Inspects, operates, troubleshoots, removes, repairs, overhauls, and installs aircraft hydraulic and pneumatic systems and components, including SE.  Identifies and isolates malfunctions, services, bleeds, bench checks, rigs, and performs adjustments to aircraft hydraulic components, associated electrical components, power systems, landing gear, nose wheel steering, brakes, flight controls, weapons and cargo door systems, air refueling receiving systems, in-flight refueling systems, hoist and winch systems, engine start systems, recovery systems, arresting gear, air induction systems, and canopy systems. Inspects and pressure tests hydraulic line and tube assemblies.  Drains and flushes hydraulic systems.  Overhauls, repairs, adjusts, aligns, and tests hydraulic system and sub-system components.  Fabricates and pressure tests hose assemblies.  Operates and maintains shop equipment. Uses hydraulic, pneumatic, and electronic principles and fundamentals, technical orders, and schematic diagrams to isolate malfunctions.  Records pertinent data on equipment maintenance data collection forms and enters data into Automated Maintenance Systems.  Maintains inspection and maintenance records.  Recommends methods to improve equipment, performance, and maintenance procedures.  Handles, labels, and disposes of hazardous materials and waste according to federal and local environmental standards.

see AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE Superintendent