Job Code: 2A6X2

Description:
Maintains aerospace ground equipment (AGE) to support aircraft systems or subsystems.  Manages AGE functions and activities.

Performs scheduled and unscheduled maintenance on AGE.  Inspects, tests, and operates AGE to determine equipment serviceability and proper operation.  Diagnoses mechanical and electronic circuitry malfunctions using visual and auditory senses, test equipment, and technical publications.  Removes, disassembles, repairs, cleans, treats for corrosion, assembles, and reinstalls AGE accessories and components.  Stencils and marks AGE.  Services equipment with fuel, oil, coolant, water, hydraulic fluid, and air.  Operates, cleans, inspects, and services AGE towing vehicles.  Maintains vehicle forms.  Provides dispatch service for AGE, including positioning equipment to support aircraft maintenance and flying operations. Diagnoses malfunctions and repairs AGE. Evaluates and performs troubleshooting on AGE before assigning repair action.  Inspects and approves completed maintenance actions.  Prepares AGE for storage, shipment, and mobility deployment.  Solves repair problems by studying drawings, wiring diagrams and schematics, and technical publications.  Uses  automated maintenance system to monitor maintenance trends, analyze equipment requirements, maintain equipment records, and document maintenance actions.  Analyzes and repairs  ground support equipment using conventional and digital multimeters, voltmeters, ohmmeters, oscilloscopes, circuit card testers and hand tools.  Maintains AGE external fuel and grounding systems.  Performs battery serviceability checks.  Stores, handles, uses, and disposes of hazardous material and waste according to environmental standards. Plans and organizes AGE maintenance activities.  Establishes production controls and standards.  Interprets and implements policy directives and instructions pertaining to maintenance, including environmentally safe maintenance practices.  Determines resource requirements, including facilities, training, equipment, and supplies.  Inspects maintenance activities, evaluates resource use, and recommends corrective actions.  Determines equipment serviceability criteria when it does not exist.

Experience in functions such as inspecting, modifying, or repairing Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A652.  Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as inspecting, modifying, repairing, or troubleshooting AGE.

experience managing AGE functions and activities.