Job Code: 2A731

Description:
Designs, welds, heat treats, fabricates, and machines precision tools, components, and assemblies for aerospace weapon systems and related support equipment (SE).

Advises on metals machining, welding, designing, and production problems. Designs, manufactures, or modifies special precision tools, gauges, dies, and fixtures to facilitate metal working operations. Performs metals technology shop calculations such as determining cutting speeds and settings, welding processes, and preheat and postheat requirements. Welds, brazes, solders, and heat treats metals. Uses manual and computer numerical controlled (CNC) metal working machines, mills, and lathes to manufacture and repair cams, gears, slots, and keyways for aircraft components and SE. Writes programs for CNC machines using manual and Computer Aided Design-Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD-CAM) methods. Checks completed components and determines serviceability in accordance with drawings and specifications. Disassembles, assembles, and fits component parts using machine screws, bolts, rivets, press fits, and welding techniques. Uses metal working equipment, tools, and supplies to produce surface finishing specifications for components. Extracts broken or damaged hardware. Checks components for wear tolerances using precision measuring devices. Maintains and inspects hand tools and metal working machinery. Performs operator maintenance and service inspections on shop equipment and tools. Ensures lock out and tag out procedures are accomplished prior to maintenance on all equipment. Uses and disposes of hazardous waste and materials according to environmental standards.

see collateral duty

Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A731. Also, experience in functions such as gas and electric welding, boring, milling, Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A751. Also, experience performing or supervising functions dealing with welding, using precision measuring devices, and machining.