Job Code: 2A773

Description:
Designs, repairs, modifies and fabricates aircraft, metal, plastic, composite, advanced composite, low observables, and bonded structural parts and components. Applies preservative treatments to aircraft, missiles, and support equipment (SE).

See collateral duty

Assembles structural parts and components to meet requirements for preserving structural integrity and low observable qualities. Assesses damage to aircraft structural components and low observable coatings. Advises on structural and low observable repair, modification, and corrosion protection treatment with respect to original strength, weight, and contour to maintain structural and low observable integrity. Ensures aircraft component balance is maintained. Assembles repairs using special fasteners and adhesives. Checks repairs for serviceability according to specifications and technical publications. Manufactures jigs, fixtures, forms, and molds. Paints aircraft, missiles, and support equipment (SE). Identifies, removes, and treats corrosion using mechanical and chemical procedures. Applies corrosion protective and low observable coatings. Applies aircraft paint schemes and markings. Uses metalworking equipment and tools to form, cut, bend, and fasten replacement or repair parts to damaged structures and components. Fabricates, repairs, and assembles tubing and cable assemblies for aerospace weapon systems and SE. Maintains and inspects tools and equipment. Performs operator maintenance and service inspections on shop equipment and tools. Ensures lockout and tagout procedures are accomplished prior to performing shop equipment maintenance. Stores, handles, and disposes of hazardous waste and materials according to environmental standards. Inspects structures and components and determines operational status. Interprets inspection findings, and determines corrective action adequacy. Posts entries and maintains maintenance and inspection records. Recommends methods to improve equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Uses automated maintenance systems. Inputs, validates, and analyzes data processed to automated systems. Clears and closes out completed maintenance discrepancies in automated maintenance systems.

experience in functions such as fabricating, repairing, assembling, or installing aircraft metals, plastics, fiberglass, composites, or honeycomb parts; or corrosion identification, removal, and applying coatings and markings. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 2A753. Also, experience supervising functions dealing with corrosion identification, prevention, and repair; applying protective coatings and markings; or fabricating, assembling, and repairing metal, fiberglass, composites, honeycomb, and plastics.