Job Code: 2A795

Description:
Evaluates, installs, removes and repairs low observable coatings. Designs, repairs, modifies and fabricates aircraft, metal, plastic, composite, advanced composite, LO, and bonded structural parts and components. Applies preservative treatments to aircraft, aerospace ground equipment (AGE), and support equipment (SE).

See collateral duty

Applies low observable materials and coatings to aircraft. Repairs low observable and metallic structural parts and components to meet requirements for preserving structural integrity. Assesses damage impacts to aircraft signatures. Advises on structural and low observable repair, modification, and corrosion protection treatment with respect to original strength, weight, and contour to maintain structural and low observable integrity. Assembles and repairs using special fasteners and adhesives. Checks repairs for serviceability according to specifications and technical publications. Manufactures layouts, jigs, fixtures, forms, and molds. Removes Radar Absorbent Material (RAM) by sanding, scraping or pulling using manual and powered methods. Fabricates repair parts from RAM, using standard and peculiar cutting tools and adheres them to aircraft surfaces and fasteners using vacuum bags, fixtures, and other pressure inducing processes. Applies scrim material to RAM and aircraft surfaces in preparation for RAM cover strip installation. Installs RAM cover strips to panel and skin gaps. Applies RAM pastes to aircraft surface gaps, voids, and gouges. Sands and skives RAM and RAM pastes to required contours. Repairs low observable treatments on polycarbonate transparencies using edge sealing compounds, adhesives, primers, and conductive films. Performs repair actions to ceramic RAM coatings associated with engine hot areas and adjacent fairings using grit blasters and approved high temperature curing equipment. Identifies, removes, and treats corrosion using mechanical and chemical procedures. Applies aircraft paint schemes and markings. Removes low observable finishes and treatments by sanding, scraping, cutting, gouging, and pulling, using manual and powered methods. Sands surface finishes to specified depths and widths to prepare them for proper reapplication of finishes using manual and powered methods. Determines extent of damage and/or scope of task and performs finish and treatment removal tasks accordingly. Removes panel, door, and skin fasteners to gain access to aircraft interior and replaces fasteners following maintenance. Cleans aircraft interior and exterior surfaces and gaps to prepare them for filler treatments, fairing materials, and other follow-on maintenance. Mixes multi-part adhesives, sealants, fillers, fairing materials, and organic topcoats. Applies, sands, and skives fillers and fairing materials to Technical Order Data (TOD) specifications for waviness, step condition, and aerodynamic smoothness. Applies organic low observable topcoats and rain erosion materials using spray equipment, brushes and rollers. Uses ambient and accelerated cure processes to cure adhesives, sealants, fillers, fairing materials, and organic topcoats. Uses planform alignment procedures to determine proper repair angles and dimensions for low observable finishes and treatments. Uses metalworking equipment and tools to form, cut, bend, and fasten replacement or repair parts to damaged structures and components. Fabricates, repairs, and assembles tubing and cable assemblies for aerospace weapon systems and AGE/SE. Maintains and inspects tools and equipment. Performs operator maintenance and service inspections on shop equipment and tools. Ensures lockout and tagout procedures are accomplished prior to performing shop equipment maintenance. Stores, handles, and disposes of hazardous waste and materials according to environmental standards and classifications. Inspects coatings, structures, and components to determine operational status. Interprets inspection findings, and determines corrective actions. Posts entries and maintains maintenance and inspection records. Recommends methods to improve equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Uses automated maintenance systems. Inputs, validates, and analyzes data processed to automated systems. Clears and closes out completed maintenance discrepanc