Job Code: 2E091B

Description:
Installs, maintains, and repairs fixed or mobile air traffic control, weather, ground aircraft control and warning radar systems, related radar operator training devices, aircraft identification equipment, remoting systems, video mappers, computerized processors, and communications subsystems. Operates and relocates related support and communications equipment.

Performs ground radar functions. Plans, organizes, and schedules work assignments, workloads, and maintenance procedures for ground radar activities. Establishes production controls and standards. Prepares reports on maintaining, installing, repairing, removing, and siting all types of ground radar systems. Ensures operations and maintenance economies by improving work methods and procedures. Designs and develops organizational structures, including manning, duty assignments, and workloads. Inspects and evaluates ground radar activities. Serves on or directs ground radar maintenance inspection teams organized to evaluate base or command maintenance programs. Performs ground radar research and development projects. Evaluates and resolves problems encountered during siting, installing, repairing, and overhauling ground radar systems. Uses layout drawings, schematics, and pictorial diagrams to solve maintenance problems, and analyzes construction and operating characteristics of equipment to determine source of malfunction. Plans, schedules, and implements installation of ground radar systems. Interprets maintenance and installation policy and procedures. Installs ground radar systems. Assembles, connects, modifies, and adjusts ground radar subassemblies such as antennas, transmitters, receivers, processors, indicator groups, and ancillary systems such as beacon equipment and video mappers. Conducts tests of installed equipment for proper component assembly and compliance with technical orders. Places in operation, calibrates, tunes, and aligns subassemblies according to approved technical data to maximize performance. Disassembles, relocates, assembles, and connects ground radar systems. Inspects and tests equipment for serviceability before and after relocation. Performs maintenance inspections on ground radar systems. Repairs, overhauls, and modifies ground radar systems. Isolates malfunctions by prescribed systems checking procedures, visual inspections, voltage checks, and other tests using electronic test equipment. Repairs ground radar subassemblies, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, operator training devices, radar beacon systems, remoting systems, video mappers, display systems, and associated communications systems and related equipment. Conducts performance tests of repaired subassemblies, using bench mockups and applicable test equipment. Accomplishes organizational and intermediate level equipment modifications according to time compliance technical orders, or field directives. Assembles, installs, and repairs antenna systems, transmission lines, and waveguides. Performs corrosion control. Establishes requirements for tools, support equipment, personnel, supplies, and technical documents. Establishes work standards, methods, and controls for functions such as periodic inspections, operational testing, and equipment repair. Identifies maintenance problem areas and initiates corrective action. Develops methods for improving maintenance effectiveness and efficiency. Interprets inspection findings, and determines adequacy of corrective actions. Ensures maintenance data collection forms and inspection and maintenance records are accurately completed. Recommends changes to improve equipment performance or maintenance practices. Evaluates justification and practicality of recommended improvements to equipment performance and maintenance procedures. Develop enforces safety standards and practices for ground radar maintenance activities. Coordinates with appropriate agencies to ensure systems support requirements.

experience is mandatory in functions such as testing, calibrating, or repairing ground radar systems, associated communications and identification equipment, operating automatic tracking radar or electronic combat systems. Use of test equipment and interpretation of test results is mandatory. Qualification in and possession of AFSC 1B155. Also, experience is mandatory in performing or supervising functions such as siting, installing, repairing, overhauling, or modifying ground radar systems, and associated communications and identification equipment.