Job Code: 2E632

Description:
Deploys, sustains, troubleshoots and repairs standard voice, data, video network and cryptographic client devices in fixed and deployed environments. Sustains and operates systems through effective troubleshooting, repair, and system performance analysis. Manages client user accounts and organizational client device accounts.

Performs client-level information technology support functions. Manages hardware and software. Performs configuration, management, and troubleshooting. Removes and replaces components and peripherals to restore system operation. Installs and configures software operating systems and applications. Provides service to end-users for operation, restoration, and configuration of information systems. Reports security incidents and executes corrective security procedures. Performs client-level voice network functions. Manages hardware and software. Performs configuration, management to include adds, moves, changes and troubleshooting. Plans, schedules, and implements installation and maintenance functions associated with voice systems. Removes and replaces telephone instruments. Reports security incidents and executes corrective security procedures. Performs client-level Personal Wireless Communication Systems (PWCS) functions. Manages hardware, software and Controlled Cryptographic Items (CCI). Performs configuration, management, and troubleshooting. Plans, schedules, and implements installation and maintenance functions associated with PWCS. Removes and replaces components and peripherals to restore system operation. Reports security incidents and executes corrective security procedures. Reports spectrum interference incidents. Plans, organizes and directs sustainment activities. Establishes work standards, methods and controls for preventative, scheduled, and unscheduled maintenance actions. Determines extent and economy of repair of malfunctioning equipment. Ensures compliance with technical data, instructions, and work standards. Develops and enforces safety standards. Interprets malfunctions and prescribes corrective action. Serves on, or directs inspection teams organized to evaluate base or command sustainment programs. Manages, or performs research and development projects for assigned systems. Coordinates and documents repairs. Manages, administers, controls, and evaluates contracts. Manages, supervises, and performs planning and implementation activities. Manages implementation and project installation and ensures architecture, configuration, and integration conformity. Develops, plans, and integrates base C-CS. Serves as advisor at meetings for facility design, military construction programs and minor construction planning. Evaluates base comprehensive plan and civil engineering projects. Monitors status of base civil engineer work requests. Performs mission review with customers. Controls, manages, and monitors project milestones and funding from inception to completion. Determines adequacy and correctness of project packages and amendments. Monitors project status and completion actions. Manages and maintains system installation records, files, and indexes. Evaluates contracts, wartime, support, contingency and exercise plans to determine impact on manpower, equipment, and systems.

Experience performing functions such as client systems support. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as client systems support and management of information systems.