Job Code: 2G071

Description:
Develops, evaluates, monitors, and supervises logistics plans and programs including war reserve materiel (WRM), deployments, employment, and support planning and agreements.

experience managing functions such as developing evaluating, monitoring, or inspecting logistics activities, or preparing logistics plans and documents.

experience in functions such as developing, evaluating, monitoring, or inspecting logistics activities, or preparing logistics plans and document. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as developing evaluating, monitoring, or inspecting logistics activities, or preparing logistics plans and documents.

Performs logistics deliberate planning processes. Develops and supervises preparation of logistics annexes for operations plans and orders, programming plans, and general support, contingency, and exercise plans. Monitors and resolves logistics limiting factors. Prepares, evaluates, and supervises all aspects of deployment planning, dispersal, sustainment, recovery, reconstitution, exercises, and logistics support procedures. Conducts installation surveys to determine support capability. Provides planning support for associated units. Performs base support planning processes. Prepares and directs compiling, coordinating, publishing, distributing, maintaining, and implementing base support plans. Analyzes and identifies plan supportability. Identifies limiting factors, shortfalls, and alternate support methods to enhance supportability of transiting and beddown forces. Performs deployment, employment, and logistics command and control processes. Prepares, compiles, coordinates, publishes, distributes, maintains, and implements deployment guidance. Prepares for and supervises deployments and redeployments. Establishes and operates a control center. Monitors deploying personnel and equipment products. Reviews planning documents to determine deployment taskings. Inputs, extracts, and interprets data in automated information systems. Assists in beddown of combat forces, analyzes emergency action messages, and recommends solutions. Develops crisis action procedures in conjunction with other employed organizations. Maintains a close relationship between operations, logistics, and support organizations to enhance support of the combat mission. Analyzes and recommends requirements for forward movement of forces to support theater commanders. Integrates redeployment planning actions with functional area representatives. Performs WRM functions. Develops guidance and supervises administration, surveillance, and management of WRM. Analyzes WRM reports to validate constraints and develop planning factors. Validates and monitors WRM deficiencies. Participates in WRM review board. Assists in WRM requirements determination process. Performs support agreement processes. Monitors preparation, negotiation, coordination, and maintenance of support agreements. Serves as installation support agreement manager.