Job Code: 2M032

Description:
Services and maintains, or supervises these actions, on missiles, spacelift boosters, payloads, research and development (R&D) systems, environmental blast doors and valves, associated subsystems, components, and support equipment (SE). Operates and maintains related equipment. Designs R&D systems. Performs acquisition and activation activities.

See Collateral Duty

Performs missile maintenance actions at flightline, railhead, support base, and launch, launch control, and storage facilities, and ensures compliance with international treaties. Inspects, repairs, adjusts, and replaces, or supervises these actions, on components and subcomponents. Mechanically and electrically connects or disconnects reentry systems, guidance and control sections, missile stages, propulsion systems, and secondary ordnance devices at the launch facility. Prepares missile and launch facility for simulated launch and follow-on test and evaluation. Performs preventive maintenance inspections and electrical tests on missiles; missile components; launch and launch control facilities; support vehicles; hydraulic, pneudraulic, and pneumatic systems; and SE. Initiates unsatisfactory reports, failure reports, or proposed modifications. Performs intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) coding activities. Supervises transportation, assembly, and inspection of spacelift booster and payload functions, their subsystems, and SE. Directs and controls activities of contractor personnel during space launch activities. Supervises loading, transportation, unloading, inspection, assembly, and hoisting of spacelift boosters, payloads, component parts, and satellites at space launch facilities; preparation of space launch complexes; and erection and mating of spacelift booster sections, payloads, and SE. Supervises or performs preventive maintenance inspections. Practices and supervises safety procedures when handling nitrogen, liquid fuels, oxidizers, and ordnance devices. Evaluates malfunctions and recommends corrective action. Performs and evaluates laboratory R&D activities. Assembles, installs, and tests R & D systems such as laser, electromagnetic launcher, energetic materials, propulsion, high-powered microwave, satellite, telescope, and pointing and tracking. Designs, maintains, modifies, and operates support equipment, such as data acquisition devices, fiber optic, instrumentation. vacuum systems, wind tunnels, test stands, high/low pressure gas, propellant mixing/molding, and exotic fuels storage systems. Supports and advises scientists and engineers during experiment design, setup, and execution. Troubleshoots and resolves anomalies associated with laboratory systems and experiments.

Experience in functions such as missile, space launch, and R&D, launch control, or preparation of launch facilities. Also, experience performing or supervising missile maintenance, spacelift, or laboratory R & D activities.