Job Code: 2M0X3

Description:
Maintains, operates, services, and repairs power generation and distribution systems, and environmental control and associated support systems and equipment for missile, spacelift, and research and development (R&D) facilities.

Experience in functions such as maintaining and operating missile and space facilities, R&D facilities, or related support equipment. Also, experience performing or supervising power generation, missile, spacelift, or R&D facilities.

See collateral Duty

Performs or supervises preventative and operator maintenance on missile, spacelift, and R&D facilities.  Troubleshoots, repairs, and services missile weapon systems, spacelift and R&D equipment, facilities, and support equipment (SE).  Included are power generation and distribution systems such as diesel generators, automatic switching units, manual switching gear, distribution and control panels, battery systems, and associated controls; environmental control systems; air conditioning, heating, ventilation, and refrigerant systems; and spacelift support systems and associated equipment.  Services SE dealing with fuel, lubricants, hydraulic fluids, and air. Analyzes support facility and equipment malfunctions, and determines operational readiness.  Solves interface problems between electrical and electronic equipment.  Repairs or supervises maintenance of accessories and components of direct support and real-property installed equipment.  Coordinates activities of contractor personnel during space launch activities.  Performs acquisition and activation activities. Performs priority maintenance on systems/subsystems to assure launch capability.  Performs facility and support equipment tests, adjustments, and maintenance.  Diagnoses malfunctions and repairs mechanical, electrical and electronic circuitry, and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment using visual and auditory senses, test equipment, systems knowledge and technical publications. Monitors, repairs, and operates missile, spacelift, and R & D SE. Monitors or operates fault display, checkout panels, and test stands to detect system and component malfunctions.  Tests electrical circuits and security, gas detection and fire warning systems, and auxiliary power equipment for readiness.  Performs inspections and operates special vehicles.