Job Code: 2R151

Description:
Plans, schedules and organizes use and maintenance of aircraft, engines, munitions, missiles, space systems, aerospace ground equipment (AGE), and associated support systems. Documents and maintains aircraft, engines, missiles, munitions, AGE, and associated support systems records. Maintains generation flow plans for units required to meet emergency war order and wartime tasking. Analyzes maintenance information and requirements and develops visual presentations. Monitors aircraft maintenance scheduling effectiveness.

Experience performing or supervising maintenance scheduling and documenting functions.

Plans and schedules aerospace vehicle maintenance and utilization requirements. Develops plans and establishes production schedules to meet mission requirements. Schedules aerospace vehicles, AGE, munitions, missiles, space systems, and associated support systems through maintenance phases. Determines maintenance capabilities to aid in developing operational schedules. Prepares weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual utilization schedules for known maintenance and operational mission and training requirements. Coordinates with base activities to ensure support is available to meet schedules. Manages aerospace vehicles, engine munitions, missiles, space systems, AGE, and selected equipment inventory data. Reconciles flying hour data with Operations. Schedules and monitors workload requirements. Ensures the maintenance operation center (MOC) supervisor and appropriate Maintenance and Operation Group commanders are advised of maintenance capabilities, limiting production factors, and adherence to maintenance schedules. Uses automated system to schedule and monitor maintenance activities' workload. Schedules maintenance jobs, helps establish work priorities, and monitors completion times. Operates maintenance information systems (MIS) and maintains equipment records to support applicable weapons systems. Coordinates with maintenance data systems analysis to establish automated support requirements. Maintains and audits weapon systems records. Collects, reviews, and files documented information for planning and scheduling maintenance actions. Maintains historical records for weapons and support systems. Manages the weapons system configuration, Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), special inspection, and time change program and their related MIS. Ensures accurate documentation of aircraft engines, munitions, missiles, space systems, AGE configurations, TCTO, time change items, and special inspections.

See collateral Duty