Job Code: 2S051

Description:
Supervises and performs item and monetary accounting and inventory stock control, financial planning, and funds control. Computes requirement, determines allowance, and researches and identifies supplies and equipment requirements. Supervises and performs operations involved in storage, inspection, identification, and receipt of property. Responsible for facility safety and security. Conducts inventories. Operates automated equipment, special purpose government vehicles, and materiel handling equipment.

experience is mandatory in functions such as preparing and maintaining documentation and records associated with inventory management actions, receipt, storage, and delivery of property, issuing and transferring property, conducting inventories, or segregating and preparing property for storage and identifying items and condition of property.

Performs administrative and management functions. Performs and monitors management (and procedural application) of manual or automated inventory control actions. Computes and accumulates data for use in analysis. Helps develop work standards and methodology. Performs inventories, and ensures timely correction of discrepancies. Prepares, analyses, and evaluates reports, procedures, and policy data. Provides customer service.   Inspects and evaluates inventory management activities. Periodically inspects activities for compliance with policies, procedures, and directives for accuracy. Analyzes reports and records activities, reports inefficiencies to supervisors, and recommends corrective actions to improve operations. Evaluates supply efficiency and equipment management activities. Uses management products to evaluate accounts.   Provides support to maintenance activities. Coordinates with maintenance activities on repairable component actions. Controls and issues bench stock property. Obtains material required for equipment modification, periodic component exchange, and bills of material in support of maintenance. Accounts for all items contained in mobility readiness spares packages.   Inspects and identifies property. Inspects conditions of property received. Compares property with procurement specifications. Identifies property, using technical data and blueprints, and identifies components to subassemblies. Performs shelf life inspections of stock.   Performs technical material functions. Develops methods and improves procedures for storage and issuing property. Plans use of storage facilities. Inventories supplies and equipment. Prepares statements of facts surrounding property loss, damage, or destruction through causes other than fair wear and tear. Establishes property locator system.   Issues, delivers, and transfers property. Issues, ships, delivers or transfers property from issue, shipping, or transfer destination points through coordination with customers. Controls issue of classified sensitive, and controlled items, obtaining custody or document receipts. Complies data for storage and occupancy planning reports. Pulls, issues, and bins bench stock property.   Plans and schedules materiel storage and distribution activities. Ensures availability, and controls use of space, materiel handling equipment, and required spare parts. Establishes fire prevention and safety standards, and ensures compliance. Determines requirements for storage, including those for classified, sensitive, radioactive, hazardous, mobility readiness spares packages and flammable property. Ensures protection of personnel. Prevents deterioration, contamination, and destruction of property. Controls stock rotation to prevent deterioration and permit maximum use of dated and technical order compliance assets. Coordinates with customers regarding priority of deliveries and destination points. Establishes controls to deliver expedited requests within prescribed time limits. Supervises central receiving activity; coordinates requirements for shipping with transportation. Supervises reparable processing center. Maintains assigned unit vehicles.

experience is mandatory supervising functions such as establishing and maintaining reporting and management procedures for stock consumption, analyzing trends in stockage policy and customer support, and supervising storage facilities.