Job Code: 2T131

Description:
Performs the Air Force organic ground transportation capability for passengers and cargo using a multitude of vehicles in direct support of mission requirements. This includes operating light and heavy-duty vehicles such as buses, truck and semi-trailer combinations, forklifts, and wrecker/recovery vehicles. Supports personal security details. Performs motor vehicle preventative maintenance checks and services. Plans organizes, and directs vehicle transportation to support operational missions.

Experience managing vehicle operations functions such as vehicle dispatch, operator records, and licensing.

experience performing vehicle operations functions such as inspecting, servicing, operating, scheduling, and dispatching vehicles; controlling equipment and performing custodial duties; or preparing, reviewing, and maintaining vehicle forms and records. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as vehicle dispatch, planning and scheduling transportation support, administering driver qualification and licensing program, developing cost center resource estimates, or investigating accidents or incidents.

Operates, cleans, services and performs preventative maintenance on government motor vehicles. Prepares, reviews, and maintains vehicle operator forms, records, and reports. Conducts pre- and post-operation vehicle inspections and documents results. Conducts dispatch operations through planning and scheduling of vehicle operations resources to meet transportation support requirements. Designates and coordinates shuttle bus and mass transportation requirements. Manages school bus transportation. Develops taxi zones or stands. Maintains records and logs. Controls and safeguards trip kit and packet supplies and equipment such as national credit cards, tickets, and fuel coupons. Serves as unit control center and initiates quick reaction checklists, operations plans, and personnel recalls. Coordinates and schedules documented cargo movement. Uses automated and non-automated tracking processes for cargo accountability and maintains applicable forms. Reviews records and logs to ensure proper turn in of accountable documents. Provides transportation services for distinguished visitors and special events. Plans and coordinates special arrangements with protocol functions. Displays appropriate customs and courtesies. Administers installation driver qualification and licensing program. Serves as liaison with state, local and host nation authority on licensing matters; ensures compliance by base agencies. Initiates vehicle trainer background checks. Coordinates and maintains vehicle plans and instruction. Documents and tracks reported cases of vehicle misuse. Reviews contingency, mobility, and natural disaster plans to determine support requirements. Establishes sub motor pool procedures and implements deployment and redeployment actions. Prepares and conducts convoy operations. Operates vehicles while in mission oriented protective postures. Reviews mission capability statement to determine training and equipment requirements for deployments. Conducts night operations to include operating vehicles in blackout conditions with night vision goggles and global positioning systems. Determines and implements personal and collective security measures for convoy and in-garrison operations. Develops and implements tactics, techniques and procedures commensurate with combat operational requirements. Identifiers and establishes required bare-base vehicle operations activities. Conducts operations under communications blackout conditions. Supports personal details. Manages work centers. Establishes work methods and performance standards. Develops operating and administrative procedures. Develops cost center resource requirement estimates. Complies operating costs and maintain expense records. Prepares and defends budget. Allocates and inspects facilities and equipment. Conducts self-inspections. Investigates accidents or incidents within functional areas. Coordinates manning requirements with manpower personnel. Evaluates services provided by vehicle operations. Negotiates support agreements. Advises commander, staff, and operating agencies of availability, limitations, and requirements for motor vehicles and personnel. Monitors and coordinates on military construction projects. Establishes a local permissible operating distance. Makes official use of government vehicle determinations. Evaluates and approves special requests. Reviews, interprets, and validates records, directives, and documents. Performs as quality assurance evaluator and functional area chief. Develops and monitors contract transportation services. Coordinates with base contracting.