Job Code: 2T231

Description:
Performs and manages air transportation activities. Plans, schedules and processes eligible air cargo passengers and mail. Loads and unloads aircraft. Prepares and maintains air movement records and reports. Performs fleet services on aircraft.

experience in functions such as loading and unloading aircraft; operating automated or manual materials handling and other loading equipment; or processing, scheduling, and maintaining records relating to passenger and cargo movement.

Plans and organizes air transportation activities. Justifies personnel, equipment, and facilities required to accomplish air transportation activities. Determines supplies and facilities required, and allocates equipment. Establishes procedures for loading passenger and cargo aboard aircraft, processing passengers, and preparing records and reports. Provides handling services of special category passengers. Determines and implements necessary safety and security precautions for handling and storing dangerous materials, special cargoes, mail, and baggage. Plans and selects fleet services. Preplans and computes aircraft load distribution. Supervises use of materials handling equipment and cargo loading and unloading operations.   Directs air transportation activities. Supplements policies and directs supervisory personnel providing cargo and passenger loading and unloading services, and performing airdrop activities. Establishes procedures for passenger and aircraft clearance through international border clearance agencies. Inspects airlift activities for compliance and recommends corrective action. Conducts personnel and equipment management surveys, and provides technical assistance as required.   Verifies eligibility of cargo and mail offered for airlift. Reviews passenger travel authorizations for validity and accuracy. Ensures all cargo documentation, packaging, labeling and marking requirements, and all border clearance requirements have been met. Provides information on schedules, routes, air movement requirements, baggage limitations, and local facilities for passengers. Performs air transportation and fleet service functions. Requisitions, stores, and issues expendable and nonexpendable items for use on aircraft. Ensures aircraft cleanliness and maintains records on fleet service equipment, supplies and activities.   Prepares, completes, and maintains air movements records, documents, and reports. Prepares and maintains travel forms and weight and balance records. Applies common user and international tariff rates, collects fares, and accounts for documents and monies.   Checks in passengers, processes, schedules, transports, and escorts passengers to and from aircraft. Determines quantity and type of cargo to be loaded according to allowable aircraft cabin load. Selects, assembles, palletizes, and transports aircraft cargo loads to and from aircraft and storage areas. Checks cargo against manifests, and annotates overage, shortage, or damage. Secures cargo with appropriate devices and equipment. Operates terminal security equipment, and conducts passenger and baggage security inspections. Exercises necessary safety and security precautions in handling and storing hazardous or special cargoes and mail. Expedites cargo movement as necessary

experience supervising functions such as preparing aircraft load plans; loading and unloading aircraft; operating automated and manual materials handling equipment; and processing, scheduling, maintaining records on passenger movement by airlift. Also, experience managing passenger, cargo, mail, and airlift and airdrop activities.