Job Code: 2T332B

Description:
Performs vehicle maintenance activities on military and commercially designed fire fighting vehicles and equipment. Activities include inspection, diagnostics, repair, and rebuild of components and assemblies.

Determines the overall mechanical condition of vehicles and equipment, corrections of deficiencies required, and effects repair. Systematically analyzes malfunctions by visual and auditory examination or through the use of test equipment. Repairs, adjusts, overhauls or replaces major assemblies or subassemblies such as power and drive trains, electrical, air-conditioning, fuel, emission, brake, steering, pumping, suction and agitator, and traction systems. Removes and disassembles gasoline or diesel engines and components. Repairs components by replacing worn or damaged parts with new or reconditioned parts. Reassembles, adjusts, and tests repaired units for proper operation. Calibrates and adjusts pumps, meters, safety unit proportioning devices, and limiting devices to ensure proper operation. Synchronizes remote or manual electrical and hydraulic controls. Adjusts power boosters, clutches, drive chains, and tension devices.  Performs preventive and special maintenance, uses technical publications in maintaining vehicles to prescribed manufacturer's maintenance schedules. Ensures special inspections and maintenance on vehicles are performed correctly, such as corrosion control, winterization, storage and shipment. Properly annotates all maintenance performed on prescribed forms for data collection purposes. Adheres to all established safety policies and standards to include identification, use, and proper procedures for handling or disposal of hazardous waste.

Manages the vehicle fleet. Activities include the management of vehicle authorization listings, vehicle buy and vehicle control programs and associated maintenance requirements such as inspection, diagnostics, repair, modification, refinishing, and data collection for the vehicle and equipment fleet. Programs include maintenance and fleet management analysis, quality assurance, training and material control.

Supervises and performs vehicle and vehicular equipment maintenance activities and functions, including diagnostics, repairs, rebuilding components and assemblies and fabrication of parts. Ensures compliance with vehicle maintenance policies, directives, and procedures. Plans and schedules vehicle and equipment maintenance activities. Plans and controls work methods, production schedules, operating procedures, and performance standards. Monitors established maintenance priorities; tire and battery shop operations, and determines mission requirements. Ensures vehicles, equipment, tools, parts, and manpower are available to support mission requirements. Inspects and evaluates vehicles and equipment. Diagnoses malfunctions of major assemblies and subassemblies to determine the extent of repair or replacement, or recommend disposition of vehicles and equipment. Inspects repaired or rebuilt parts and equipment to ensure work conforms to standards. Inspects equipment for required modification and installation of safety devices. Ensures shop equipment is inspected and serviced at required intervals and that unserviceable tools and equipment are removed from service and their condition tagged. Identifies and initiates materiel deficiency reports at work center level. Performs vehicle and equipment maintenance functions. Solves complex maintenance problems by interpreting layout drawings, specifications, schematics, diagrams, and operating characteristics of vehicles and components. Uses technical orders, commercial manuals or automated systems to determine maintenance procedures and research parts. Troubleshoots, adjusts, repairs, and tests vehicles; alternate fuel, diesel, and gasoline engines; fuel, exhaust, and electrical systems; clutches; torque converters; transmissions; transfer cases; power takeoffs; drive lines; axles; frames; steering, suspension, dispensing, brake, air, and hydraulic systems; tracks; winches; emission control, heating, and air-conditioning systems, active/passive restraint systems and other mounted or special equipment. Cuts, grinds, repairs, and installs vehicle glass and Plexiglas. Welds vehicle parts and accessories. Practices and ensures compliance with all established safety policies and standards. Implements hazardous waste management policies and procedures ensuring collection, control, and disposition of hazardous and toxic waste material accumulations.