Job Code: 2T492

Description:
Performs vehicle maintenance activities on military and commercial design general and special purpose, base maintenance, aircraft and equipment towing vehicles, and vehicular equipment. Activities include inspection, diagnostics, repair, rebuild of components and assemblies and welds metals and cuts vehicle glass.

Determines the overall mechanical condition of vehicles and equipment, correction of deficiencies required, and effects repair. Systematically analyzes malfunctions by visual and auditory examination or through the use of test equipment. Repairs, adjusts, overhauls, or replaces major assemblies or sub assemblies such as power and drive trains, electrical, air conditioning, fuel, emission, brake, steering assemblies, tracks, hydraulic system components and special purpose vehicle and equipment attachments. Removes, disassembles, and repairs gasoline or diesel engines and components. Repairs components by replacing worn or damaged parts with new or reconditioned parts, grinding, fitting, balancing, or arranging for welding or machining. Reassembles, adjusts and tests repaired units for proper operation. Repair, adjust and replace window regulators and other associated body components. Cuts, grinds, bevels, and smoothes the edges of laminated automotive glass and installs. Replaces curved glass with factory replacements. Cleans, tests, and repairs vehicle radiators and associated parts. Tests for leaks and blockage using tanks and flow testers. Identifies and uses proper procedures for safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste materials. Welds, cuts, and repairs metals using oxyacetylene, gas-shielded and arc welding. Prepares metal for welding and sets up job using various jigs, clamps and fixtures. Selects the proper equipment for metal welding and effects repair. Adheres to established safety standards and practices. Aligns bearing loads, gear tooth contact, and backlash to manufacturer specifications. Adjusts valve mechanisms, governors, oil systems, control linkages, clutches, traction units and other systems unique to this type of equipment. Times injection pumps and accessory shaft gear trains. Accomplishes tire and battery shop operations in a safe and efficient manner. Performs preventive and special maintenance. Uses technical publications or automated systems in maintaining vehicles to prescribed manufacturer maintenance schedules and for researching parts. Ensures special inspections and maintenance on vehicles are performed correctly such as; corrosion control, winterization, storage and shipment. Properly annotates all maintenance performed on prescribed forms for data collection. Adheres to all established safety policies and standards to include identification, use, and proper procedures for handling or disposal of hazardous wastes.