Job Code: 2W071A

Description:
Performs and manages munitions production and materiel tasks and activities. Identifies munitions and equipment requirements. Operates and maintains automated data processing equipment (ADPE) to perform munitions accounting, computations, and research. Stores, maintains, assembles, issues, and delivers assembled nonnuclear munitions. Routinely demilitarizes nonhazardous munitions. Operates and maintains munitions materiel handling equipment (MMHE). Develops and implements munitions materiel management concepts and procedures. Complies with explosive, missile, and ground safety, security, and environmental directives and practices. Identifies munitions by filler, color code, marking, or physical characteristics. Receives, stores, handles, and transports nuclear weapons

Tests, assembles, and processes nonnuclear munitions. Prepares munitions for loading on aircraft. Checks safe and arm mechanisms. Installs warheads, guidance units, fuses, arming wires, explosive bolts, squibs, strakes, wings, fins, control surfaces, and tracking flares. Prepares, assembles and tests aircraft rockets and loads in launchers. Processes aircraft gun ammunition. Maintains and reconditions munitions and MMHE. Reconditions, repairs, and replaces defective or missing parts. Maintains shop or bench stock materiel and secures replenishment. Modifies munitions and all MMHE when directed. Inspects munitions for serviceability and applies munitions product assurance procedures. Installs spotting charges in bombs. Processes ammunition. Inspects ammunition, components, and containers for defects. Prepares documentation indicating identification and quantity of assets. Performs routine demilitarization of nonexplosive munitions items. Repackages munitions and applies container markings. Receives, stores, handles, and transports nonnuclear munitions. Unloads and unpacks munitions. Checks shipping documents for accuracy. Delivers munitions to assembly, storage, or maintenance areas. Prepares munitions for shipment. Determines and maintains storage facilities, reports, safety, and security requirements. Performs inspections and maintains inspection and storage records. Issues nonnuclear munitions. Performs operator maintenance on munitions vehicles and equipment. Performs munitions materiel management and materiel accounting functions. Performs and oversees management and procedural application of manual and automated inventory control and accounting functions. Determines inventory control actions. Conducts inventories and corrects discrepancies. Accomplishes requisitioning actions and maintains due-in, due-out, and status files. Maintains source document control and ensures validity and completeness. Recommends system and program changes to data processing methods. Develops and maintains stock level data. Monitors excess munitions programs. Prepares reports. Operates and maintains ADPE for munitions accounting, reporting, and status configuration. Coordinates with maintenance activities on repairable munitions components. Obtains material for equipment modifications, periodic component exchange, and maintenance. Receives, stores, handles and transports nuclear weapons. Establishes and evaluates performance standards, maintenance controls, and work procedures. Computes data to support financial planning and programming. Analyzes and validates munitions host-tenant and interservice munitions support agreements and plans. Develops methods and techniques to maintain and recondition munitions and handling equipment. Evaluates munitions account condition, identifies deficiencies, and initiates corrective actions. Ensures compliance with policies, directives, and procedures. Evaluates munitions equipment maintenance. Evaluates procedures for assembling, renovating, and storing munitions; and procedures for demilitarization of nonexplosive munitions. Provides status information and expected completion dates. Analyzes mission effectiveness, program requirements, and stock control levels, and validates requirements. Analyzes stockpile requirements to determine type and quantity of munitions facilities needed to safely store, inspect, maintain, and secure munitions assets.

Experience is mandatory in performing functions such as warehousing, accounting, mechanical assembly, electronics, construction, transportation of munitions, use of hand tools, and preparing and maintaining documentation and records for inventory management actions involving manual or automated systems or both.  Also, experience is mandatory in supervising or performing functions such as receipting, identifying, inspecting, storing, reconditioning, issuing, delivering, maintaining, testing, and assembling guided and unguided munitions; or preparing and maintaining documentation and records for inventory management actions.

Experience is mandatory in managing functions such as accountable munitions material operations; munitions storage, maintenance, and assembly functions; munitions inspection; equipment maintenance; line delivery and handling functions; computing levels; automated data processing; or maintaining munitions material management accounts.