Job Code: 2W271

Description:
Performs and manages maintenance, inspection, storage, handling, modification, accountability and repair of nuclear weapons, weapon components, associated equipment, and general or specialized test and handling equipment.

Inspects, assembles, disassembles, maintains, and modifies nuclear weapons, bombs, missiles, reentry vehicles and systems, launchers, pylons, penetration aids, and associated test and handling equipment. Maintains and operates permissive action link associated equipment. Trouble¬shoots and maintains test sets. Resolves maintenance problems, interprets publications, performs inspections and submits deficiency reports on faulty components. Writes reviews and recommends improvements to technical data and equipment. Stores, handles, and transports nuclear warheads, bombs, missiles, reentry vehicles and systems, penetration aids, and associated equipment. Inspects, maintains, and operates vehicles and munitions material handling equipment used to transport and handle nuclear weapons and components. Complies with nuclear, missile, explosive and general safety measures; weapons systems safety rules; and technical orders. Observes two-person concept and no lone zone requirements. Performs emergency disablement or evacuation of nuclear weapons and components. Inspects, maintains, and develops rotation schedules for high security locks and keys. Assists in performing operational checks on alarm systems. Stores, inspects, maintains, and uses small arms and ammunition. Performs escort duties. Performs limited conventional munitions functions associated with North Atlantic Treaty Organization custodial detachments. Plans, organizes, directs, inspects, and evaluates nuclear weapon activities, and performs nuclear weapon functions. Plans, schedules, inspects, and evaluates nuclear weapon maintenance actions, including related components and specialized test and handling equipment. Performs maintenance reporting, weapons inventory, accountability, and verification procedures using the Defense Integration and Management of Nuclear Data Services computer system.. Establishes production control, performance standards, and maintenance priorities. Coordinates maintenance actions with other maintenance and munitions organizations. Ensures conformance to prescribed standards of quality, safety, and security. Conducts periodic inspections to provide assistance in solving maintenance and supply problems. Performs production and visual inspections.

Experience performing functions such as inspecting, maintaining, storing, handling, and repairing nuclear weapons, weapon components, and using related test and handling equipment. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as inspecting, maintaining, handling, and repairing nuclear weapons, weapon components, and related test and handling equipment.

Experience managing nuclear weapons and associated resources to include directing functions such as inspecting, maintaining, storing, handling, repairing nuclear weapons, weapon components, and related test and handling equipment.