Job Code: 31P3

Description:
Leads, manages, and directs security force (SF) activities. Included are installation, weapon system, and resource security; antiterrorism; law enforcement and investigations; military working dog functions; air base defense; armament and equipment; training pass and registration; information, personnel, industrial security; and combat arms. SF duties may require use of deadly force.

Leads, manages, and directs SF personnel. Protects nuclear and conventional weapons systems and other resources. Plans, leads, and directs SF deployments. Directs air base defense functions including control and security of terrain inside and immediately adjacent to military installations, and defense of personnel, equipment and resources. Leads and directs individual and team patrol movements, tactical drills, battle procedures, convoys, military operations other than war, antiterrorism duties, and other special duties. Direct employment and operation of communication equipment, vehicles, intrusion detection equipment, crew served-weapons, and other special purpose equipment. Leads and organizes SF operations. Enforces standards of conduct, discipline, and adherence to laws and directives. Oversees police services, security, military working dog, combat arms, and confinement operations. Carries out SF on-scene commander function. Oversees and evaluates unit performance. Develops SF plans, policies, procedures, and instructions. Assesses installation or deployed location vulnerabilities. Establishes programs, plans, and policies to protect Air Force combat capabilities. Formulates standards and policies to implement DoD, Air Force, and higher headquarters programs and policies. Programs and budgets actions for initial acquisition, modification, and replacement of SF facilities, vehicles, equipment, and other resources. Establishes security classification management programs. Develops orientation and education programs for information security. Develops and manages force protection and antiterrorism programs and training. Leads and manages SF activities. Serves on boards and planning groups involving security, force protection, police services, and antiterrorism matters. Coordinates SF functions and matters with other unit, military services, and civilian agencies. Monitors and directs programs to ensure cost effective mix of security forces personnel and equipment, Initiates and monitors research and development programs to assist in design and acquisition of equipment.

a minimum of 24 months of experience is mandatory in SF officer assignments.