Job Code: 36PX

Description:
Performs and administers personnel programs, including procurement, professional development, classification, assignments, promotions, separations, personnel support for contingency operations (PERSCO), and personal affairs. Advises and assists commanders and supervisors in administering social actions activities, including equal opportunity, drug and alcohol abuse control, and education in human relations programs. Develops, conducts, and evaluates education and training programs, including curriculum planning; evaluation and analysis of curriculum materials, training methodology, and instructional systems; and instructing students on technical or academic subjects. Conducts management training and education programs.

Formulates programs, plans, and policies. Develops plans and policies for operation of personnel, social actions, and education and training. Determines functional responsibilities, manning requirements, assignment of personnel, facilities, and services according to program management and resource capabilities. Implements Air Force policies on matters such as utilization, effectiveness ratings of personnel, personnel accountability and reporting during contingency, wartime, and emergency operations and mobilization. Organizes social actions programs to help commanders prevent substance abuse and ensure equal opportunity in support of mission readiness. Develops and improves work methods and procedures related to techniques of instruction, testing, and syllabus preparation. Plans and organizes on-the-job training programs.   Coordinates programs. Coordinates with operating and staff agencies to ensure integration, and timely and accurate execution of personnel, social actions, and education and training programs and plans. Correlates report data to foster and develop program management consistent with Air Force mission requirements. Consults with commanders and staff personnel on priority of training programs, and with combat and operational personnel to develop curricula in the fields of strategy and employment of air power.   Monitors and directs activities. Translates program policies into directives, publications, and training manuals. Classifies and assigns military personnel by analyzing qualifications of individuals in terms of job or position requirements. Analyzes resource data to ensure proper use and accountability of Air Force assets. Processes personnel records, forms, and actions such as appointments, specialty classification, promotions, assignments, and separations. Establishes programs to assist in prevention and resolution of equal opportunity and treatment, and other human relations issues. Develops and directs education in human relations to promote awareness and understanding, and to prevent and resolve social problems. Assists commanders, supervisors, and individuals with aspects of human relations and substance abuse. Determines need and makes referrals to proper agencies. Monitors effectiveness of unit human relations environment and substance abuse programs. Advises on education and training problems. Inspects and analyzes effectiveness of Air Force teaching methods, evaluates quality of teaching aids and materials, and appraises student attitudes. Conducts management training in technical or academic subjects for instructors and students. Evaluates problems identified in course, curriculum, or program reviews and instructional improvement techniques, teaching aids, and devices.