Job Code: 3D0X3

Description:
Supervises or operates fixed and deployed information technology (IT) and telecommunications resources to monitor, evaluate and maintain systems, policy and procedures to protect clients, networks, data/voice systems and databases from unauthorized activity.  Identifies potential threats and manages resolution of security violations.  Enforces national, DoD and Air Force security policies and directives; employs hardware and software tools to enhance the security by installing, monitoring and directing proactive and reactive information protection and defensive measures to ensure Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA) of IT resources.  Administers and manages the overall Information Assurance (IA) program to include Communications Security (COMSEC), Emissions Security (EMSEC) and Computer Security (COMPUSEC) programs.

Conducts IA risk and vulnerability assessments; ensures enterprise IA policies fully support all legal and regulatory requirements and ensures IA policies are applied in new and existing IT resources.  Identifies IA weaknesses and provides recommendations for improvement.  Monitors enterprise IA policy compliance and provides recommendations for effective implementation of IT security controls.   Evaluates and assists IT activities.  Makes periodic evaluation and assistance visits, notes discrepancies, and recommends corrective actions.  Audits and enforces the compliance of IA procedures and investigates security-related incidents.  Assists in conducting IT forensic investigations.  Manages the IA program and monitors emerging security technologies and industry best practices. Performs or supervises detection and protection activities using IA and IA-enabled tools and provides real-time intrusion detection and firewall protection for all IT resources.  Responsible for IA oversight or management of national security systems during all phases of the IT life cycles.  Ensures CIA of IT resources. Operates and manages  IA tools and IA-enabled tools.  Integrates tools with other IT functions to protect and defend IT resources.  Provides CIA by verifying IA controls are implemented in accordance with DoD and Air Force IA standards.  Analyzes risks and/or vulnerabilities and takes corrective action to mitigate or remove them.  Ensures appropriate administrative, physical, and technical safeguards are incorporated into all new IT resources through certification and accreditation and protects IT resources from malicious activity. Installs, upgrades, configures and maintains IA tools and IA-enabled tools; develops scripts and macros to automate tedious tasks and ensure data survivability through IA controls. Performs COMSEC management duties in accordance with national and DoD directives.

Experience performing IA functions and/or activities and supervising IA functions and/or activities.