Job Code: 3D157

Description:
Cable and Antenna Systems specialists provide command and control (C2) capabilities through installation, maintenance, fault isolation, and reconstitution of fixed cable and wireless distribution systems, local area networks (LAN), and wide area networks (WAN) in support of tactical and strategic operations. They monitor and analyze performance of underground, buried, and aerial cable and antenna networks.

expect to fill various supervisory and management positions such as shift leader, element NCOIC (Noncommissioned Officer in Charge), flight superintendent, and various staff positions.

Provide direct supervision and management

Installs, maintains, reconstitutes, removes, and modifies copper core, coaxial, waveguide, and fiber optic cable and antenna systems. Climbs antenna support structures and wooden poles to various heights for maintenance and installation actions on cable and antenna systems. Installs and maintains dedicated local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) media distribution systems, including distribution system interior wiring. Uses drawings, task lists, instructions, and technical data to work on copper core, coaxial, waveguide, fiber optic cable, and antenna systems. Installs distribution equipment. Terminates copper core and fiber optic cables on main distribution frames and interface equipment. Operates and performs maintenance on tools, test equipment, auxiliary equipment, and vehicles such as backhoes, trenchers, cable trailers, cable reel trucks, and antenna construction vehicles.  Locates, repairs, and replaces faulty closures in copper core, waveguide, coaxial, and fiber optic cable systems. Performs pneumatic troubleshooting to locate faulty splice closures and demivalve assemblies. Excavates and backfills splice pits. Seals cables, repairs demivalves, and adjusts pressure transmitters and contactors. Installs and maintains aerial cable support structures such as pole line and suspension strands. Installs underground cable, uses duct rods, cleans cable duct systems, prepares the pulling apparatus, and pulls in and temporarily bonds cable. Installs, maintains, and marks path of buried cable systems.