Job Code: 3E032

Description:
Installs, removes, operates, maintains, and repairs electrical power generating and control systems, aircraft arresting systems, and associated equipment.

Installs, removes, and operates electrical power generating and control systems, automatic transfer switches, aircraft arresting systems, and associated equipment. Checks equipment for serviceability. Positions equipment such as gasoline and diesel engines, generators, switchgears, air compressors, and other power generating auxiliary equipment. Installs, positions, rewinds, and pretensions aircraft arresting systems. Certifies aircraft arresting systems as required. Checks installed equipment to ensure compliance with publications, policies, and directives. Inspects, tests, and services component systems such as safety, fuel, lubrication, cooling, air pressure, pumps, regulators, governors, and accessory equipment. Observes and interprets instruments such as ammeters, voltmeters, frequency meters, synchroscopes, automatic temperature and pressure recorders, and engine oil, fuel, and coolant gauges. Adjusts engine generator systems to maintain proper voltage, current frequency, and synchronization. Synchronizes multigenerators. Operates high and low voltage switches, circuit breakers, rheostats, and other controls on switchgear and distribution panels. Performs electrical power control and distribution functions. Maintains, modifies, and repairs electrical power generating and control systems, automatic transfer switches, aircraft arresting systems, and associated equipment. Performs inspections and interprets findings to determine corrective action. Identifies and records engine and generator malfunctions. Uses precision test equipment, troubleshoots malfunctions, and inspects parts for excessive wear and other conditions. Removes, repairs, and replaces defective power generating equipment components. Performs corrosion control. Inspects and replaces gauges and meters. Maintains aircraft arresting systems, including electrical, hydraulic, rewind, and pneumatic systems, and other electronic components. Bench checks components and subassemblies. Tests and calibrates repaired items. Reviews performance data and maintenance records to determine adequacy of maintenance. Interprets data related to electrical power generating and aircraft arresting systems to ensure overall mission success. Reviews and advises on projects associated with electrical power generating and control systems, automatic transfer switches, aircraft arresting systems, and associated equipment. Reviews layout drawings and wiring diagrams. Ensures new construction meets proper operating characteristics of equipment. Establishes maintenance and operating procedures to ensure maximum efficiency. Maintains records. Posts entries on operation, inspection, and maintenance records. Records meter readings, wear and alignment measurements, fuel consumption, and other data in performance logs. Furnishes information for reports and recommends changes to correct defective equipment or improve operating procedures. Complies with environmental policies.

experience in functions such as operation and maintenance of engines, generators, and distribution components of electric power production equipment and aircraft arresting systems. Also, experience performing or supervising function such as operation and repair of electrical power production and aircraft arresting systems.

See collateral Duty