Job Code: 3E471

Description:
Installs, inspects, maintains, troubleshoots, modifies, repairs, and manages plumbing, water distribution, wastewater collection systems, water and wastewater treatment systems, fire suppression, backflow prevention systems, natural gas distribution systems, liquid fuel storage, distribution, and dispensing systems. Complies with environmental and safety regulations.

Installs, and operates natural gas, plumbing, water and wastewater treatment systems, fire suppression, backflow prevention systems, aircraft hydrant refueling, bulk storage, and ground product dispensing systems. Monitors systems operation to ensure efficiency and compliance with local state, federal and DoD regulations for safety and environmental regulations for hazardous materials. Installs and operates field potable water treatment equipment. Maintains, inspects, and repairs natural gas, swimming pools, plumbing, water and wastewater treatment systems, fire suppression, and backflow prevention assembly and program. Performs inspection, recurring maintenance, winterize, and overhaul systems. Operationally inspects and diagnoses malfunctions in mechanical and electrical system controls and components using technical orders, manufactures' handbooks, local procedures, code and directives. Inspects condition and operation of electrical components such as motors, disconnect switches, contacts, solenoids, relays, alarms, cathodic protection systems and programmable logic controls. Conducts fuel system components, and performs pressure testing and maintenance on fuel system piping. Performs confined space entries to accomplish system maintenance. Solves complex maintenance problems by studying layout drawings, wiring diagrams, and schematics to analyze, isolate and troubleshoot system malfunctions. Removes, repairs, and replaces defective components. Installs, modifies, repairs, and maintains a variety of new and existing utility, supply, and disposal systems and equipment such as sewage, water, oil, and gas distribution systems, and water closets, tubs, backflow prevention devices/assemblies, fire sprinkler systems, and showers. Locates and taps main lines, sets up system routes, places and cuts route openings, places hangers for proper level and slope, and determines and installs valves, traps, and unions as needed for proper operation of a variety of systems and equipment. Develops and establishes operation and maintenance procedures to ensure maximum efficiency. Locates and determines quality and quantity of water sources. Coordinates locations of field latrines and pits with engineering and medical staff. Analyzes water for chemical and physical characteristics to determine water purification treatment methods. Installs and operates field potable water treatment equipment. Assists with installation, maintenance and repair of Fuels Mobility Support Equipment (FMSE), Fuels Operational Readiness Capability Equipment (FORCE), and other contingency fueling assets. Performs planning activities, quality assurance to include service contracts, and facility surveys. Surveys proposed work to determine resource requirements. Initiates fuel facility Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization and Military Construction Projects to include project review, monitoring, and acceptance through DESC. Prepares cost estimates and supply procurement for in-service work. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate jobs. Ensures all planning activities comply with environmental and safety regulations to include hazardous materials.

Experience in functions such as installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of liquid fuel systems, natural gas distribution systems, plumbing, water distribution and wastewater collection systems. Also, experience performing or supervision functions such as operation, maintenance, and repair of liquid fuel systems, natural gas distribution systems, plumbing, water distribution and wastewater collection systems

See Collateral Duty