Job Code: 3E691

Description:
Responsible for activating and managing Civil Engineer (CE) command and control centers during peacetime, wartime, and contingency operations. Processes and controls work requirements in contingency, wartime, and peacetime situations for work performed by CE work forces. Maintains accountability of resources.

Establishes and manages the operation of the command and control centers and customer focal point. Implements and manages the customer satisfaction program. Responds to customer inquiries. Prepares and manages work requirements during approval, processing, and completion stages. Recommends method of accomplishment based on existing capabilities. Develops, monitors, and manages work order priority program. Monitors work costs to ensure compliance with legal limits or support agreements. Operates computer and communications equipment to support work force management activities. Manages preparation and maintenance of work force records and reports. Performs quantitative study of management data to assess CE cost and reimbursement, work performance, progress, trends, standards, and policies. Manages and ensures a continuous workflow. Manages priorities and work plans, and monitors work status. Manages recurring work program and provides non-technical automated assistance as needed. Ensures identification of environmental concerns. Develops and administers facility manager program. Analyzes work activities to ensure quality and compliance with policies, current directions, and other publications. Evaluates inspection findings and recommends corrective action. Collaborates with engineer and environmental planning functions to prepare and execute CE programs and plans. Ensures coordination and/or collaboration with all appropriate agencies. Performs Quality Assessment Evaluation and develops Statement of Work on non-technical contracts, interfaces with host nations on maintenance requirements, purchase agreements, and service contracts. Manages and advises on issues related to the operation career field. Resolves complex issues related to CE cost and reimbursement, work performance, progress trends, standards and policies.