Job Code: 3E931

Description:
Prepares, maintains, and monitors Civil Engineer (CE) operations plans and supporting documents for mobility, response, and recovery operations. Prepares, reviews and provides input to installation contingency plans. Monitors prime base engineer emergency force (Prime BEEF), air base operability, hazardous materials emergency response, emergency management programs, and schedules and conducts associated training. Manages assigned equipment and supplies, performs or schedules equipment maintenance, and inventories assets. Maintains and inspects chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN), and conventional protective clothing and equipment. Conducts CBRN and conventional detection, identification, monitoring, sampling, individual protection determination, decontamination, warning, and reporting activities.. Maintains and inspects equipment, conducts training, and prepares for peacetime response to Terrorist use of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high yield explosive (CBRNE) weapons.

experience performing functions such as helping prepare emergency management plans. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as preparing plans and conducting readiness activities.

Prepares wartime and contingency response plans. Conducts research and assists in developing emergency management plans, including measures to minimize casualties and damage from natural disasters, major accidents, wartime operations, and military operations other than war. Coordinates actions to ensure prompt response during emergency and contingency operations, including immediate mobilization of all resources and participation of all agencies and organizations. Coordinates actions to allow continuation or restoration of vital functions and operations. Prepares emergency management annexes, appendices, supplements, and other supporting documents to support operations plans. Prepares checklists and operating instructions for readiness activities. Develops and maintains plans for contingency, mobility, and recovery. Extracts tasking from the time-phased force deployment list. Establishes, coordinates, conducts, and monitors the Prime BEEF operation. Assigns Prime BEEF personnel. Analyzes training and deficiencies for wartime tasks. Identifies, budgets, requisitions, and accounts for equipment and supplies used by readiness and contingency teams. Inputs, maintains, and reviews data for status of resources and training system (SORTS). Establishes, coordinates, and maintains annual Prime BEEF training plan. Assists in assigning, training, and deploying Prime BEEF personnel; and in procuring, maintaining, storing, and deploying equipment. Conducts emergency management and emergency response training. Manages, schedules, and conducts training on readiness activities and survival measures for disasters and contingencies. Provides briefings, and develops installation emergency management training and educational materials. Assists in emergency planning and response to comply with Executive Order 12856 and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986. Monitors CE readiness and installation emergency management activities. Inspects equipment. Ensures emergency management teams are established and manned. Acts as exercise evaluation team member for CE and ensures exercises are conducted according to directives. Ensures authorized and required CBRN protective equipment and clothing, detection devices, and monitoring instruments are available, calibrated, and in operating condition. Monitors actions to preserve life, minimize damage, and restore operations following natural disasters, accidents, wartime attacks, and military operations other than war. Coordinates emergency management activities and plans with all base units and nearby military and civilian organizations. Briefs military and civilian personnel in conjunction with community relations programs. Monitors air base operability activities. Requisitions supplies and equipment for readiness and the Readiness Support Team (RST). Maintains custodial files for accounts such as supply and equipment; intrabase radio; test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment. Manages unit and staff agency emergency management program. Provides unit and staff agency assistance to ensure emergency management planning and training have been accomplished, and emergency management directives are being followed. Conducts emergency management analysis. Establishes and monitors requirements and procedures for contamination control. Detects, identifies, measures, and reports contamination. Assists bioenvironmental engineer to interpret hazards to personnel. Coordinates and monitors exposure control procedures. Plots contamination levels and coordinates with medical personnel to identify contaminated areas and establish safety procedures. Ensures unsafe areas are marked according to directives. Documents findings and reports to proper authority. Performs CE readiness and installation emergency management functions. Serves in mobile emergency operations center vehicle (MEOC) or emergency operation center (EOC), or CBRN control center. Monitors

Experience directing functions such as readiness programs, or evaluating, planning, and organizing readiness activities.