Job Code: 3N171

Description:
Manages, supervises, and performs as an instrumentalist, music arranger, vocalist, military band support technician, or audio and lighting engineer in military band activities.      A Clarinet  B Saxophone  C Bassoon  D Oboe  E Flute or Piccolo  F French Horn  G Cornet or Trumpet  H Baritone or Euphonium  J Trombone  K Tuba  L Percussion  M Piano  N Guitar  P Music Arranger  Q Bagpipe  R Vocalist  S Electric Bass/String Bass  T Military Band Support (USAF Band or the USAF Band of the Rockies)  V Audio and Lighting Engineer  Z Instrumentalist, General (Air National Guard Bands)

Experience performing as an instrumentalist, music arranger, vocalist, military band support technician, or audio and lighting engineer. Also, qualification as an instrumentalist, music arranger, vocalist, military band support technician, or audio and lighting engineer. Also, experience performing with, bands, choruses, or similar groups (except shredout T).

Experience directing and planning functions such as providing musical services, training musical groups, performing administrative functions; and experience performing with bands, choruses, or similar groups.

Plans, organizes, directs, and inspects military band activities. Analyzes local musical requirements and provides appropriate services. Plans and schedules such activities as rehearsals, drills, training classes, and performances. Provides and accounts for equipment, space, supplies, and other facilities required by band. Advises higher authority on band status, equipment maintenance and adequacy, personnel training, and operational efficiency. Coordinates activities such as concerts, parades, and rehearsals with interested agencies and higher authority. Directs full band, sectional, and other group rehearsals. Directs the operation of bands in military and civilian performances, including parades, ceremonies, and concerts. Manages band administrative and support functions. Auditions personnel such as newly assigned members, civilians interested in enlistment for military band, and assigned personnel for promotional and training purposes. Supervises and performs band functions. Performs on one or more musical instruments in concert and marching bands, dance band, and other musical groups. Performs under conductor's direction. Performs in small musical ensembles such as brass or woodwind quartets, quintets, or other combinations. Drills with marching band and executes formations on drum major's or leader's verbal or baton signal, while playing or carrying a musical instrument. Plays from music or memory while standing or marching. Performs as marching band drum major during drills, parades, and ceremonies. Arranges and adapts music for various musical combinations. Reads and sings vocal musical parts, and memorizes vocal parts for public performance. Operates and maintains audio reinforcement, recording, lighting, video, and multimedia equipment used during band rehearsals, training, and performances. Performs band support functions such as operations, logistics, publicity, and administration. Performs minor maintenance on musical equipment. Arranges facilities for rehearsals and performances. Copies and maintains musical parts and performs band support functions.