Job Code: 3P072

Description:
Leads, manages, supervises, and performs security force (SF) activities, including installation, weapon system, and resource security; antiterrorism; law enforcement and investigations; military working dog function; air base defense; armament and equipment; training; pass and registration; information security; and combat arms. Shredouts:  A- Military Working Dog handler B- Combat Arms

Leads, manages, supervises, and performs force protection duties, including use of deadly force to protect personnel and resources. Protects nuclear and conventional weapons systems and other resources. Performs air base defense functions contributing to the force protection mission. Controls and secures terrain inside and outside military installations. Defends personnel, equipment, and resources from hostile forces. Operates in various field environments, performs individual, and team patrol movements, both mounted and dismounted, tactical drills, battle procedures, convoys, military operations other than war, antiterrorism duties, and other special duties. Operates communications equipment, vehicles, intrusion detection equipment, crew-served weapons, and other special purpose equipment. Applies self-aid buddy care, life saving procedures, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation, as first responder to accident and disaster scenes. 2.2. Provides armed response and controls entry. Detects and reports presence of unauthorized personnel and activities. Implements security reporting and alerting system. Enforces standards of conduct, discipline, and adherence to laws and directives. Directs vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Investigates motor vehicle accidents, minor crimes, and incidents. Operates speed measuring, drug and alcohol, and breath test devices. Apprehends and detains suspects. Searches persons and property. Secures crime and incident scenes. Collects, seizes, and preserves evidence. Conducts interviews of witnesses and suspects. Obtains statements and testifies in official judicial proceedings. Responds to disaster and relief operations. Participates in contingencies. 2.3. Develops plans, policies, procedures, and detailed instructions to implement SF programs. Plans, organizes, and schedules SF activities. Provides oversight, guidance, and assistance to commanders with the application of information, personnel, and industrial security programs. Operates pass and registration activities. Supervises and trains SF augmentees. Provides on-scene supervision for security forces. Inspects and evaluates effectiveness of SF personnel and activities. Analyzes reports and statistics. 2.4. Provides guidance on employment and utilization of military working dog teams. Ensures proficiency training and certification standards are maintained. Employs military working dogs to support worldwide security force operations and executive agency requirements. Ensures health and welfare of military working dogs. Trains handlers and military working dogs on all aspects of military working dog training. Acts as an intruder in dog bite and hold training. Reports and reacts to dog alerts. Maintains dog training and usage records. Responsible for storage, handling, and security of drug and explosive training aids. 2.5. Leads, manages, supervises, and implements ground weapons training programs. Operates SF armories. Controls and safeguards arms, ammunition, and equipment. Instructs ground weapons qualification training. Provides guidance on weapons placement to security forces and ground defense force commanders. Inspects ground weapons and replaces unserviceable parts. Analyzes malfunctions by inspection and serviceability testing. Uses precision gauges, testing instruments, and special tools to adjust parts and operating mechanisms. Function-fires weapons for accuracy and serviceability. Controls and operates firing ranges and associated facilities to include supervising construction and rehabilitation.

experience in SF functions such as weaponry; controlling entry into and providing internal control within installations and restricted areas; response force tactics; air base defense concepts and procedures; terrorist threat response techniques; alarm monitor duties; control center duties; traffic control; patrolling; or accident investigation. Also, experience in functions such as SF weaponry, maintaining dog handling equipment, caring for and training military working dogs, and reacting to dog alerts. experience supervising or performing functions such as weapon systems and resource security, air base defense, law enforcement, military working dog functions, or combat arms functions.

experience in leading and directing SF activities.