Job Code: 42E3

Description:
Examines, diagnoses, treats and manages diseases and disorders of the visual system, the eye and associate structures as well as diagnoses related systemic conditions. Serves as an integral part of the military health team and an entry point into the military health care system. The scope of optometric practice in the Air Force includes but is not limited to comprehensive primary eye care services, i.e., evaluations, diagnoses and treatment, for all eligible patient beneficiary categories; comprehensive specialty services, including contact lenses, low vision and vision training; co-management of ocular surgery and ocular complications of systemic illness in the inpatient and outpatient setting; primary eye care consultant for other health care professionals in the military health care system; promoting prevention and wellness, vision conservation, education and training activities, vision screenings, and positive health behaviors.

Same as junior tasks.

Same as junior tasks.

Examines eyes and vision. Examines, diagnoses, treats, and manages diseases and disorders of the visual system, the eye, and associated structures, as well as diagnosis of related systemic conditions utilizing refractive, pharmaceutical, and rehabilitative (low vision, contact lens, and binocular vision) procedures. Prescribes treatment. Utilizes and prescribes pharmaceutical agents for the examination of the eye and adnexa as well as treatment and management of vision disorders, diseases, and conditions of the eye and adnexa. Utilizes and prescribes ophthalmic and other rehabilitative prosthetic devices (such as spectacles, contact lenses, low vision devices) and trains in their use. Orders studies. Orders diagnostic laboratory studies (such as preparation of specimens for cultures, sensitivity testing, smear and histological analysis, chemistry, hematology, coagulation, serology and immunology, nuclear medicine, and urinalysis); orders diagnostic imaging studies (such as ultrasound of the eye, head, neck, heart; ocular fluorescein and indocynanine green angiography; and radiology of the eye, orbit, head, neck, chest including X-ray, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography with and without contrast). Consults with attending physicians and other health care providers. When requested, augments the care of patients and provides referral to appropriate health care providers of patients with medical, surgical, psychiatric, and rehabilitative conditions. Performs clinical procedures. Provides refractive status determination; binocular vision status determination; ocular and adnexal health evaluation; external, anterior segment and fundus photography with interpretation; visual field measurement and interpretation, ocular electrodiagnostic measurement with interpretation; ocular diagnostic imaging (optical coherence tomography, scanning laser polarimetry, retinal thickness analyzer, ultrasonographic and laser) measurement with interpretation; ocular angiographic (fluorescein and indocynanine green) photography with interpretation; epilation of lashes; expression of adnexal glands; examination, testing, dilation and irrigation of the lacrimal apparatus; insertion of temporary and permanent punctual plugs; removal of non-perforating foreign bodies from the eye and adnexa. Conducts research. Plans and conducts research in areas of clinical optometry and physiological optics, such as physical standards, protective and corrective eyewear, examining methods and techniques, and perceptual problems associated with aeronautics and space flight. Manages optometry activities. Directs, supervises, and reviews performance of optometrists and ophthalmic technicians with emphasis on meeting the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) business plan goals while providing quality care in alignment with the clinical guidelines of the American Optometric Association. Monitors day-to-day clinical and administrative activities to determine compliance with procedures governing optometric activities. Instructs ophthalmic technicians in local operational procedures, and in use and maintenance of ophthalmic instruments. Develops, implements, and conducts process improvement initiatives, collects and analyzes eye and vision treatment outcome data, and develops research program documents, evaluations, procedures, operating instructions, and policies. Reports optometric activities to appropriate squadron commander IAW AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations. Leads clinical preparation for Health Services Inspection (HSI) and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations (JCAHO) inspections. 2.8. Manages and directs occupational vision programs. Plans, supervises, and participates in vision conservation and eye protection programs according to AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System (MHSS) and AFI 44-117, Ophthalmic Services. Works with the base saf