Job Code: 42S2

Description:
Explores basic personality structure in relationship to developing behavioral patterns, mechanisms, and symptoms. Applies principles, knowledge, and practice of professional social work to provide mental health diagnosis, treatment, research, consultation, and preventive programs for individuals, families, groups, and organizations in military community.

For award of AFSC 42S3, a minimum of 24 months of supervised post-graduate experience in clinical social work assignments is mandatory.

Plans, manages, and provides social work services in mental health, substance abuse, Family Advocacy, occupational health, correctional, medical, special needs identification and assessment coordination, and other professional military settings. Uses social case work, therapy techniques, administration, community organization, consultation, teaching, research, planning, coordination, education, and welfare services to assist eligible personnel. Supervises and directs mental health staff to prepare psychosocial histories, diagnostic assessments, and treatment plans, and to provide treatment services within their level of competence. Develops social work staff training programs to ensure uniformly high standards for the social service activities of craftsmen personnel. Assesses and plans for the social and psychological needs of individuals, families, groups, and organizations in the military community. Coordinates social service activities and maintains liaison with military and civilian resources. Provides consultation on social aspects of policies, procedures, and services to medical staff, commanders, base agencies, volunteers, major commands, and other installations of assignment. Administers and oversees social service and other mental health programs. Assists in, or develops military community mental health resources and social work programs. Conducts research and training. Conducts and participates in research appropriate to professional training and expertise. Develops and maintains an active information program designed to apprise community of their social needs and resources available to assist in addressing problems. Trains social work students in affiliation with a university graduate social work program, and engages in education and training of other professional medical personnel. Develops and conducts internship programs for newly accessed social work graduates and ensures understanding of Air Force social work functions prior to assignment to initial duty station.

See junior and middle tasks.