Job Code: 42T4

Description:
Plans, develops, and manages occupational therapy programs and activities. Implements research activities. Provides and conducts training in occupational therapy. Evaluates patients and treats disabilities requiring occupational therapy.

Same as junior tasks.

For award of AFSC 42T3, a minimum of 24 months of supervised clinical experience in an occupational therapy assignment is mandatory.

Plans, coordinates, controls, directs, and evaluates occupational therapy activities. Determines and implements policies and procedures pertaining to occupational therapy program and activities. Determines requirements for occupational therapy services including staffing, budget, equipment, physical plant design, supplies, and continuing education. Establishes professional care standards and appraises performance levels of subordinates. Coordinates medical facility occupational therapy program. Executes responsibility for independent management of complex neuromuscular and musculoskeletal disorders within the scope of practice. Fulfills all responsibilities and expectations of medical staff appointment as a highly experienced advanced clinician. Provides examination, evaluation, diagnosis, prognosis, intervention and outcome assessment for inpatients and outpatients. Develops, implements, monitors, modifies evidence based treatment/rehabilitation programs. Utilizes advanced practice privileges, orders referrals/consultations, diagnostic tests and studies when indicated to expedite care. Maintains caseload and case mix productivity standards as defined by local policy and ensures access to care is within clinic standards. Provides clinical oversight and direction of staff occupational therapists and support staff. Interfaces effectively with members of the professional staff and off base providers ensuring coordinated care. Prescribes, fabricates and facilitates procurement, fits, instructs and establishes effective use of adaptive equipment and other therapeutic devices. Prescribes limitations in work, sport, school and activities of daily living; generates written restrictions IAW local standards. Employs electronic systems to document and maintain patient care documentation while ensuring timely coding is accomplished according to local policy. Directs patient into a specific creative opportunity, challenging task, work related activity, or competitive outlet. Educates patients and family on therapeutic activities and use of equipment. Acts as a consultant to the medical staff on occupational therapy matters. Evaluates effectiveness and efficiency of occupational therapy programs and continuing educational activities. Performs required clinical and non-clinical administrative duties. Manages priorities, schedules and deadlines to ensure temporal, quantity and quality demands of the workload are met. Manages occupational therapy interns; formulates training objectives and develops standards; provides clinical education, training and mentorship. Instructs occupational therapy support staff in current evidence-based theory and practice of occupational therapy. Provides and develops musculoskeletal injury prevention services. Develops, conducts and participates in clinical research IAW local policy. Plans, conducts and participates in medical readiness training.