Job Code: 43A2

Description:
Train selected Biomedical Science Corps (BSC) officers in a course of instruction leading to designation as an Air Force Aerospace and Operational Physiology Officer (APO). Trains in hypobaric (altitude) chamber operations, aeromedical aspects of flight, sensory physiology, aviation life support systems, acceleration physiology, emergency egress, aircraft mishap investigation concepts, and Airman performance enhancement, sustainment and optimization. Manage aerospace physiological training units and human performance flights. Specific duties include: instructs personnel in aerospace and operational physiology, human performance and human factors. Plans, conducts, and directs aerospace physiology acquisition, science and technology programs; manages specialized physiology support divisions for high altitude projects; manages life support equipment functions when required; and supervises aerospace and operational physiology programs at Air Staff, MAJCOM, or FOA staff level.

Manages all functions of USAF aerospace physiological training units or flights. Plans and directs all activities of personnel and programs required to train aircrews and operationally support Airmen in the physiological human factor, and human performance threats, hazards and risk of operational support, battlefield Airmen and flying operations. Organizes and prepares instructional materials. Studies objectives and requirements for physiological training. Prepares assignments, demonstrations, group activities, training aids, references, and related material required to supplement course outline. Instructs personnel such as trainee flight surgeons, flight nurses, observers, and aircrew in aerospace and operational physiology, human factors and human performance subjects. Instructs trainees in such subjects as physics of atmosphere, physiology of respiration, accelerative forces, physiology of blood and circulation, effects of temperature, physiological effects of altitude, self imposed stresses, aviation human factors, circadian rhythm, night vision, noise and vibration, bailout from high altitudes, and survival. Demonstrates physiological countermeasures used in flying, such as oxygen equipment, acceleration protective (anti-G) aircrew ensembles, ejection seats, survival equipment, pressure suits, physiologic sensors, and protective helmets. Briefs students on safety precautions associated with flying and life support equipment. Indoctrinates aircrews on chemical defense equipment and procedures. Coordinates aerospace physiological training programs. Confers with operations officers, flying safety officers, and staff officers on changes in texts, training project outlines, general class progress, student/trainee disciplinary problems, examination procedures and tests, school records and related subjects. Develops new training aids. Advises education and training staff officers on such matters as course curricula revision and preparing training manuals. Advises local commanders, operations officers, flying safety officers, and flight surgeons on aerospace physiology and human factor and human performance problems and mitigation strategies. Helps organize and present flying safety programs and meetings. Arranges special evaluation and diagnostic hypobaric chamber "flights." Supervises operation of aerospace physiology training devices. Ensures safe operation of such devices as hypobaric chambers, reduced oxygen breathing devices (hypoxia trainers), spatial disorientation trainers, swing landing trainers and night vision goggle trainers. Supervises minor repairs of chambers, disorientation trainers, and night vision trainers. Conducts health screening interviews with trainees before chamber flights to prevent unwarranted chamber reactions because of trainee's physical condition. Supervises and performs necessary measures in managing chamber reaction cases. Plans, coordinates and directs aerospace biotechnology acquisition, science and technology programs. Generates policies and procedures governing establishment and performance of acquisition, science and technology development projects, including requirements for funds, facilities, material, equipment, and personnel. Resolves technical problems involved in reviewing and interpreting scientific data, formulating new concepts, and recommending new approaches. Directs preparation of technical reports on acquisition, science and technology projects. Manages specialized units supporting high altitude and performance flying activities. Plans and develops physiological, survival, and life support equipment and training programs required to provide for the safety of aircrews assigned to these programs. Supervises aircrew pre-flight and post flight preparation and conditioning of aircrews, including donning and removing specialized equipment, and removing aircrews from the aircraft. Coordinates and manages physiological program actions at Air Staff, MAJCOM and FOA level. May func

For award of AFSC 43A3, a minimum of 24 months of experience is mandatory in aerospace physiology assignments.

Same as junior tasks.