Job Code: 44F4

Description:
Provides continuing, comprehensive health maintenance and medical care to entire family regardless of sex, age, or type of problem. Directs outpatient and inpatient care and services. Instructs other health care providers and nonmedical personnel.

Same as junior tasks.

For award of AFSC 44F3, completion of a residency in family practice acceptable to the Surgeon General HQ USAF, or board certification by either the American Board of Family Practice or the Advisory Board of Osteopathic Specialties is mandatory.

Maintains a program of comprehensive health for the family unit, to include preventive medicine, behavioral sciences, and community health. Prepares and reviews medical histories and obtains data through interviews. Assembles triages and evacuates sick and wounded personnel. Examines patients, formulates differential diagnostic plans, defines and orders required diagnostic testing. Interprets examination findings and test results, and implements treatment plans. Determines need for consultation and assists in medical care and treatment provided at the direction of other specialists. Manages family practice inpatients, conducts ward rounds, and prescribes inpatient therapy. Participates in surgical, obstetrical, gynecological and critical care procedures according to training and demonstrated ability. Provides supportive and definitive care to patients with serious medical and surgical conditions with appropriate consultation, based on documented and demonstrated proficiency. Manages family practice services for the health care of families. Formulates plans and procedures for operating outpatient and inpatient services directed toward health maintenance and ongoing health care of families by a physician who serves as their personal physician. Supervises and certifies the impaneling process of families according to local needs and resources. Schedules activities for the Family Practice Clinic, and assigns medical officers, nurses, and medical technicians. Determines needs for, and advises on kind and quantity of, medical supplies and equipment. Coordinates outpatient and inpatient services with other medical activities. Participates in committee direction of outpatient and inpatient health care services, as well as resource, facility, and logistics management. Instructs medical and non-medical personnel. Formulates medical training programs and instructs both medical and nonmedical personnel in a variety of health-related topics, including first-aid measures, basic and advanced cardiac life support, and health care maintenance. May teach family practice residents and medical students at military or affiliated civilian institutions.