Job Code: 44T2

Description:
Participates in the multi-disciplinary management of cancer patients. Evaluates patients to determine suitability for radiation therapy. Treats pathological conditions with various types and sources of radiation. Manages radiotherapy services.

Same as junior tasks.

For award of AFSC 44T3, completion of a residency in radiotherapy acceptable to the Surgeon General, HQ USAF, is mandatory.

Provides consultation regarding cancer management. Consults with other medical officers in the diagnosis, staging, treatment, and follow-up of patients with malignant diseases. Interview and examines patients. Reviews radiographic and other imaging studies, laboratory data, histopathological slides, and other diagnostic information. Determines and advises regarding suitability for radiation therapy. Provides radiation therapy. Administers various types of radiation, or supervises its administration, to carefully determined areas of the body, with due consideration for the tolerance of various tissues and volumes. Selects the most appropriate technique or modality, including external beam therapy with photons or particles at various energies, surface applications, intracavitary applications, or interstitial applications. Determines daily and total radiation dose and maintains records of all therapy administered. Instructs radiologic personnel in proper patient positioning, beam alignment, field setup, and treatment areas. Monitors clinical response during therapy. Conducts and advises as to follow-up evaluations. Manages radiotherapy services. Formulates plans and procedures for management of radiotherapy services. Coordinates radiotherapy services with other medical activities. Schedules patient visits and treatments. Assigns radiologic personnel and other personnel. Advises on kind and quantity of radiotherapy equipment needed. Participates in the delivery of continuing medical education in radio therapy for physicians and other personnel. Serves as consultant in radiotherapy.