Job Code: 44U2

Description:
Administers occupational medicine program; provides urgent and non-urgent outpatient medical care to authorized DoD affiliated personnel and selected active duty personnel with special standards of medical qualification. Evaluates working environments to detect and control health hazards and prevent disease and injury within the work environment.

Same as junior tasks.

Provides occupational medicine clinical and administrative support. Maintains a program dedicated to job related outpatient clinical services and workplace safety. Schedules activities for Occupational Medicine Clinic, and assigns medical technicians. Determines need for, and advises on kind and quality of, medical supplies and equipment. Coordinates patient referral to other medical providers and families. Manages return to work programs and surveillance examination requirements as determined by federal law. Establishes procedures to identify occupational hazards, to notify appropriate agencies of occupational disease or injuries, and to investigate job related injuries and illnesses. Serves as liaison with federal, state, and local agencies in matters related to occupational medicine. Directs preventive medicine activities. Directs health education and control measures for preventable diseases and injuries. Identifies occupational medicine research needs. Develops and implements research projects to control communicable and preventable diseases. Provides guidance on nutrition, food service sanitation, water supply safety, sewage and waste disposal, immunizations, and other community health issues. Advises medical staff on occupationally unique exposures, patient management and treatment. Provides medical advice and guidance to bioenvironmental engineering, public health, and other organizations. Directs and provides occupational medicine support. Determines frequency of and space for occupational medicine exams required by federal regulations and work place exposures. Develops and maintains professional standards for occupational illness and injury care using AHCPR, ACOEM, or other professional society guidelines as appropriate. Advises line management on workers' fitness for duty according to 5 CFR, Part 339. Provides recommendations to Department of Labor on workers' compensation claims, and to the Social Security Administration regarding disability retirement applications. Attends Federal Employee Compensation Act (FECA) working groups as required. Reviews occupational injury and illness data obtained from other facility care providers.

For award of AFSC 44U3, a minimum of 12 months of experience in occupational medicine and a completion of residency or fellowship in occupational medicine acceptable to the Surgeon General HQ USAF, or board certification by the American Board of Preventive Medicine - Occupational Medicine is mandatory.