Job Code: 45631

Description:
Performs and manages avionics test station functions and activities. Operates, inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates computer and manually operated avionics test equipment, support equipment (SE), and aircraft avionics systems components. Shredouts: P Avionics Sensor Systems and Electronic Warfare Systems S Avionics Systems

see collateral duty

Experience in functions such as identifying performance and isolating malfunctions encountered with avionic components; using and repairing avionic electrical, electronic, and mechanical equipment; or aligning and calibrating avionic test stations and SE. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as installing, inspecting, repairing, or overhauling avionic test stations and SE

Analyzes performance and isolates malfunctions of avionics test equipment, SE, and aircraft components. Performs operational tests on test equipment, SE, and aircraft components to determine condition, analyze performance, and isolate malfunctions in the radar, sensors, communications, weapons control, electronic warfare (EW), and flight control and engine control systems. Traces logic, schematic, test flow, and wiring diagrams. Uses self-test and software functions, computer and manually operated avionics test equipment, SE, and test measurement and diagnostic equipment to determine the scope of repair and adjustment required. Inspects, maintains, programs, and calibrates avionics equipment, SE, and aircraft components. Removes and replaces assembly components using hand tools, soldering devices, and electronic instruments. Repairs EW systems and pods, sensor systems and components, wiring harnesses and interconnecting cables. Services, replaces, and cleans filtration and cooling components, and performs maintenance on test stations and avionics SE. Repairs amplifier and logic circuits; microwave equipment; servomechanisms; radio frequency circuits; video displays; and power supply circuits. Loads computer programs. Aligns, calibrates, and modifies avionics test equipment, SE, and aircraft components. Manages integrated avionics activities and complies with directives, policies, and procedures. Complies with maintenance standards. Initiates deficiency reports, maintenance analysis documents, technical data changes, and equipment records. Interprets, establishes, and complies with training, security, and safety standards. Ensures compliance with directives governing handling, use, and disposal of hazardous waste and material. Records information on data collection forms and automated systems. Directs and controls maintenance, calibration, and inspection of integrated avionics test stations and aircraft components. Plans and organizes integrated avionics activities. Plans and organizes integrated avionics equipment assembly, calibration, repair, modification, and maintenance activities. Plans physical layout of facilities, and ensures SE and spare parts availability.