Job Code: 45753

Description:
Analyzes malfunctions, inspects, removes, maintains, and installs integrated avionics systems. Performs and supervises avionics maintenance and general aircraft servicing and handling.

Operates and maintains avionics systems. Analyzes equipment operating characteristics to isolate malfunctions in avionics systems, radar, integrated test systems built-in-test (BIT), multiplexed data buss systems, recording systems, firee control systems, video display systems, flight instrumental, mission computer systems, electro-optical viewing systems (EVS), inertial navigation systems (INS), primary and secondary flight controls, automatic flight control, engine instrumentation, fuel management systems, central air data systems, electronic warfare (EW) systems, sensors, communication, and navigation systems, aircraft indicating systems, airborne warning and control systems (WACS), surveillance radar, joint surveillance target attack radar systems (JSTARS), and interrogator systems. Removes, installs, checks, and repairs avionics systems and line replaceable units (LRU). Diagnoses malfunctions using technical orders, schematics, wiring diagrams, integrated test systems and other test equipment. Removes, replaces, and repairs faulty system wiring, electrical connectors, antennas, transmission lines, and multiconductor cables. Modifies avionics systems according to technical publications. Updates operational logs, inspection records, aircraft forms, and automated maintenance systems. Performs and supervises alignment, calibration, and boresight of avionics systems. Uploads ground maintenance and operational software. Performs off-equipment maintenance on selected avionics LRUs and maintains peculiar support equipment (SE). Inspects and evaluates aircraft maintenance activities. Inspects and verifies operational status and configuration of avionics systems and software. Records and ensures validity of entries into maintenance data collection and inspection systems. Resolves and assists units in solving maintenance and supply problems. Interprets and recommends corrective action to inspection findings. Prepares aircraft for low altitude attack profiles, precision bombing, convert operations, and reconnaissance. Plans, organizes and directs aircraft maintenance activities. Establishes methods and performance standards. Analyzes reports and maintenance plans. Directs operation and modification of standard operating procedures. Establishes priorities. Evaluates activities for compliance with directives. Supervises and assists in aircraft ground servicing, and launch/recovery operations. Reviews maintenance data collection summaries to determine trends and production effectiveness. May perform as aircraft Dedicated Crew Chief.

Experience isolating malfunctions, removing and installing LRUs, and use of test and ground SE. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as analyzing and isolating integrated avionics systems malfunctions and using test equipment.

See collateral Duty