Job Code: 46F4

Description:
Provides professional nursing care within scope of practice, established standards of care and federal/state law. . Provides comprehensive nursing care for patients during aeromedical evacuation (AE) flights. Coordinates with and makes recommendations to staff agencies concerning AE policies, plans and programs. Supports research activities.

Same as junior tasks.

Same as junior tasks.

Member of the AE crew. Functions as the senior medical member of the AE team during CONUS, intra-theater, and inter-theater flights. Collaborates with appropriate agencies and personnel concerned with conduct of the mission. Plans and prepares for AE missions. Coordinates with the operational aircrew and mission pre-planning. Prepares patient positioning plan to facilitate patient enplaning, nursing care, comfort, and safety. Evaluates individual patient's in- flight needs and requests appropriate medications, supplies, and equipment. Supervises enplaning and securing of patients. Prepares and maintains plan for patient evacuation from aircraft in case of an aircraft emergency. Plans and provides in-flight patient care. Provides continuing nursing care from originating to destination facilities. Monitors and evaluates patient condition and reactions to stresses of flight and initiates appropriate interventions as needed. Maintains and annotates in-flight patient records. Acts as liaison between medical and operational aircrews and support personnel in order to promote patient safety and comfort and to accomplish the mission. Maintains and completes data on forms relative to the mission. Supervises deplaning of patients and off-loading of patient baggage, supplies, and equipment. Briefs medical personnel at receiving medical facility on continuing nursing care and requirements. Accompanies patient to receiving medical facility when appropriate. Provides emergency care. Initiates emergency interventions for in-flight medical emergencies. Provides emergency care to patients in the event of an aircraft emergency, wheels-up landing, ditching, rapid decompression, or fuselage fire. Participates in nursing service administration activities. Participates in the instruction and evaluation of in-flight nursing care routines and practices.