Job Code: 46N3

Description:
Includes clinical nurses, clinical nurse specialists and nurse practitioners. Provides professional nursing care within scope of practice, established standards of care and federal and state laws. Acts as patient advocate and advances desired health outcomes through patientand family education. Coordinates with and makes recommendations to staff agencies concerning applicable policies, plans and programs. Participates in cross-functional collaboration to improve patient care delivery.

Provides comprehensive and specialty nursing care. Assesses health and health care needs of individuals and populations. Collects, records, and analyzes patient or population health data from preventive health assessments, nursing history, physical examinations and other sources. Uses data to determine nursing needs of patients/populations. Identifies expected health outcomes. Involves the patient, family, and community in setting realistic goals to achieve desired outcomes. Plans comprehensive care attains expected outcomes. Collaborates with other disciplines. Implements and evaluates nursing interventions. Conducts group and individual health teaching for patients, families, and community. Monitors and records patient and population health status. Uses ongoing assessment data to evaluate progress toward expected outcomes and revise plan of care as needed. Documents nursing actions and activities. Supervises and manages nursing activities. Supervises nursing staff and evaluates clinical practice. Provides adequate staffing and supervision. Participates in and contributes to staff development programs. Clinical Nurse Specialists. Expert clinician with advanced academic degree in selected nursing specialties. Renders direct patient care, including assessing, diagnosing, planning, and prescribing treatment of health problems, health promotion, and preventive care within the specialized area of practice. Sub-roles include patient and staff education, research, and consultation.

Same as junior tasks.

Same as junior tasks.