Job Code: 46P2

Description:
Provides professional nursing care within scope of practice, established standards of care and federal and state laws. Provides mental health (MH) services to promote and maintain optimal MH, prevent mental illness, manage mental and physical disorders, and to diagnose and treat human responses to actual or potential MH problems. Coordinates with and makes recommendations to staff agencies concerning applicable policies, plans and programs. Participates in cross-functional collaboration to improve patient care delivery. Supports research activities.

For award of 46P3, a minimum of 6 months in MH nursing including individual and group therapy and completion of Readiness Skills Verification Program requirements

Provides MH nursing care. Assesses individuals, families, groups and communities for MH needs. Develops diagnoses and plans, implements and evaluates nursing care within scope of practice. Designs and implements programs that foster MH, assess dysfunction, assist individuals to regain or improve coping abilities, and prevent further disability. Monitors patients undergoing detoxification from alcohol and drugs. Assists in planning, providing, and evaluating comprehensive MH services. Identifies community resources and guides individuals and families in their use. Supports, conducts, and uses nursing research to improve health care delivery. 2.2. Provides leadership and clinical assistance to other nursing personnel. Manages inpatient care unit and clinic activities. Coordinates staff assignments. Encourages staff participation in community programs promoting population MH. Assists MH care team members in identifying teaching and learning needs related to clinical care, role, and professional development. Knowledge of MH nursing process, individual/family dynamics in health and during illness; individual/group therapy, theories of personality development, human behavior, psychopathology, diagnoses, chemotherapy, psychotherapies; and physiological response to alcohol and drug abuse withdrawal is mandatory.

Same as junior tasks.