Job Code: 48A1

Description:
Develops and administers the aerospace medicine program; supervises, conducts medical examinations, and provides medical care for flyers, missile crews, and others with special standards of medical qualification. Directs evaluations of living and working environments within the Air Force community to detect and control health hazards and prevent disease and injury.

For award of AFSC 48A3, a minimum of 12 months of experience as a flight surgeon is mandatory. 3.5. Other. The following is mandatory as indicated:

Supervises aerospace medicine program. Develops policies and procedures and prepares directives governing flight medicine, physical exams and standards, preventive medicine, and occupational medicine. Serves as the principal liaison with federal, state, and local agencies in matters related to aerospace medicine, preventive medicine, and occupational medicine. Establishes medical standards for flying and special operational personnel. Makes determinations on waivers of medical standards. Develops and directs training programs for aeromedical personnel. Directs preventive medicine activities. Directs health education and control measures for preventable diseases and injuries. Assesses living and work environments to ensure healthy communities. Develops and implements research projects to control communicable and preventable diseases. Directs health promotion and fitness programs. Provides guidance on nutrition, food service sanitation, water supply safety, sewage and waste disposal, immunizations, and other community health issues. Conducts or provides consultation for disease outbreak investigations and health services research.  Advises medical staff. Advises and educates medical and dental staff on treatment of flying and special operational personnel and preparation of patients for aeromedical evacuation. Provides medical oversight and guidance to bioenvironmental engineering, military public health, physiological training, and organizations. Provides epidemiological expertise for population-based services and evidence-based medical practice. Directs occupational medicine support. Evaluate, assess, and fully characterize aerospace worker health in relation to aerospace operations, including selection and retention standards to maximize the ability to perform safely and efficiently. Determines frequency and scope of occupational medicine exams required by federal regulations and workplace exposures. Conducts and supervises placement and periodic health exams for employees. Establishes procedures to identify occupational hazards, to notify appropriate agencies of occupational diseases or injuries, and to investigate job related injuries or illness. Directs flight medicine or physical examination section program. Examines personnel to determine fitness for flying and special duty, or to recommend continuance, removal, or return to flying status and aviation service. 2.6. Provides primary medical care for flyers and their families, to include preventive medicine, counseling, and family support unit. Manages disorders and injuries unique to flight. Serves as liaison between flying squadrons and other medical services. Provides aeromedical consultation to commanders at all levels. Directs medical support to operational mission. Regularly participates in the flying mission. In-flight duties include evaluation of aircrew, aircraft, environment, and mission to provide feedback and guidance to line and medical staff. Develops and manages a mission-oriented preventive medicine program. Fully characterizes the operational environment as it relates to health and performance, providing recommendations to decrease risk, prevent mishaps, increase health, and enhance performance. Integrates medical and aviation knowledge to identify aeromedical research needs. Establishes policies and procedures for aircraft mishap and disaster response and managing casualties in aviation accidents and other disasters. Provides advice on air rescue and aeromedical evacuation. Serves on aircraft mishap investigation boards. Develops the aeromedical component of flying safety performance enhancement programs. Directs medical support of contingency operations. Directs the planning and implementation of medical prevention, intervention and evacuation during contingency operations. Applies medical intelligence and uses available intelligence to optimize the effectiveness of deploying forces. 2.9. Functions as the advocate for the human operator in aerospac

Same as junior tasks.