Job Code: 48P1

Description:
Administers aerospace medicine program. Develops, administers, and conducts general preventive medicine and public health programs. Evaluates living and working environments to detect and control health hazards and prevent disease and injury within the Air Force community.

Provides preventive medicine support. Implements policies and procedures and prepares directives governing preventive medicine, population health and health care optimization. Serves as liaison with federal, state, and local agencies in matters related to preventive medicine. Develops programs to ensure a healthy and fit force for worldwide develops. Directs preventive medicine activities. Directs health, education, and control measures for preventable disease and injuries. Assesses living and work environments to ensure healthy communities. Identifies preventive medicine research projects to control communicable and preventable diseases. Directs population health, health care optimization, health promotion, and fitness programs. Provides nutrition guidance, food services sanitation, water supply safety, sewage and waste disposal, immunizations, and other community health issues. Conducts or provides consultation for disease outbreak investigations and health services research. Advises medical staff. Provides medical advice and guidance to bioenvironmental engineering, public health, aerospace medicine, and other organizations. Provides epidemiological and health information management expertise for population- based health services and evidence-based medical practice. Directs and provides occupational medicine support in the absence of an occupational medicine or aerospace medicine specialist. Determines frequency and scope of occupational medicine exams required by federal regulations and work place exposures. Conducts and supervises placement and periodic health exams for employees. Establishes procedures to identify occupational hazards, to notify appropriate agencies of occupational diseases or injuries, and investigate job related injuries or illness. Conducts medical examinations of personnel with special standards of medical care. Provides medical support to operational mission and serves as staff advisor as needed. Develops and manages an aggressive preventive medicine program, including education in healthy life styles. Provides medical support during contingency operations. Conducts medical prevention, intervention and evacuation activities during contingency operations. Gathers and utilizes medical intelligence to provide optimal medical support to deployed forces.

For award of AFSC 44B3, a minimum of 12 months of experience in preventive medicine is mandatory.

Tasks are the same as junior tasks.