Job Code: 48V2

Description:
Performs functions of the aerospace medicine physician as well as integrated functions of a dual- rated pilot-physician in the aerospace system. Residency trained pilot-physicians may also function as specialists. Provides expert guidance from operational and medical experiences and training as a pilot. Conducts research on aerospace systems, missions, and crews. Provides operational relevance to researchers. Serves as a full time consultant during the design, testing, manufacture, and operational implementation of new aerospace systems and subsystems. Recommends deployment and employment strategies of aerospace resources to line and medical commanders to optimize deployment and employment of aerospace resources. Conducts aeromedical and aviation training for line and medical personnel. Administers aerospace medicine program.

Same as junior tasks.

Successfully pass a check ride in a USAF aircraft system as a pilot. . Upgrade to qualified must be approved by the pilot-physician program manager.

Plans and prepares flying mission. Pilots aircraft and commands crew. Conducts research on aerospace systems and subsystems to optimize their function and safety. Publishes findings. Consultant to other researchers. Provides operational insight and relevance to research. Serves as a consultant to line and medical commanders on aerospace medicine support, integrated limits of the man- machine system, and human performance factors and medical aspects of the operational employment of aerospace systems. Serves as a member of the design team for items related to human performance optimization and limits during the development of new aerospace systems, including cockpit layout, anthropometrics, aircraft and human performance capabilities, chemical-biological warfare considerations, systems design and automation, and stores design and delivery tactics. Provides operational issues training to medical service personnel. Provides medical issues training to operators, including spatial disorientation, nutrition, fatigue, illusions, and other limits of human performance. Provides advice to optimize crew members' abilities to accomplish USAF missions. Actively mentors aerospace medicine personnel at all levels. Provides critical inputs to Air Force science and technology needs to enhance war fighter performance. Supports the human weapon system concept through advancement of operator performance enhancement and sustainment. Provides aerospace, occupational, and preventive medicine support. Advises medical staff. Conducts medical examinations of personnel with special standards of medical care. Provides primary medical care for flyers and their families, and obtains medical consultations. Provides medical support to operational mission and serves as staff advisor to flying squadron commanders. Provides medical support during contingency operations.