Job Code: 4D051

Description:
Performs duties in Nutritional Medicine Service to include procuring, storing, preparing, cooking, baking and serving regular and therapeutic diets and nourishment. Performs clinical dietetics tasks and procures equipment. Maintains established sanitation, safety, and security standards. Accomplishes supply and subsistence management control and other duties as assigned. When no dietitian is assigned, consults command dietitian.

Experience managing functions such as food production, clinical nutrition, and financial accounting.

Experience in menu, diet planning, preparing, cooking, and serving regular and therapeutic diets Also, experience supervising nutritional medicine service 3activities, such as scheduling and food service accounting.

Practices timely, quality fundamentals of food preparation for regular and therapeutic diets, tube feedings, therapeutic-in-flight and box lunches. Prepares and cooks food items included in regular and therapeutic diets to conform with menus, recipes and food production worksheets. Portions and selects nourishment for regular and therapeutic diets. Arranges and garnishes foods using available products and equipment. Assembles and disassembles patient trays on food carts in patient tray assembly area. Delivers and returns food carts from nursing units. Cleans and sanitizes food carts, work area, dining area and equipment. Disassembles and cleans patient tray assembly areas and dining hall serving lines. Standardizes recipes and tests new products. Establishes production controls and standards for quantity and quality of foods. Plans menus according to established patterns. Analyzes reports on baking and cooking activities. Provides field feeding, accountability, sanitation, and layout during disasters or contingencies. 2.2. Performs clinical dietetic tasks. Receives and processes diet orders, menus and other directives related to patient care. Assists in writing individual therapeutic diet menus according to established patterns and guidelines. Conducts dietary rounds to interview patients on regular and therapeutic diets to determine satisfaction and food preferences. Completes nutrition screenings and basic level assessments. Weighs patients on initial and follow-up visits, recording the information in the patient's medical record. Obtains, evaluates and uses dietary history to plan nutritional care. Calculates simple, routine therapeutic diets. Supports community nutrition requirements. 2.3. Accomplishes supply and subsistence management control, and other administrative duties. Collects and turns in subsistence and surcharge monies. Completes menu tallies, patient tray service records and workload data. Assists in determining requirements, preparing requisitions and local purchase orders. Receives, verifies, stores and issues foods and supplies from the prime vendor, commissary and medical logistics. Draws supplies and subsistence. Establishes stock controls, periodic inventories and thawing procedures. Assists in implementing cost control procedures. Inspects and evaluates facility and equipment for proper maintenance, operation and use. Monitors quality, quantity, sanitation, safety and security standards. Practices Quality Management ensuring continuous improvements using metrics. Makes recommendations for corrective actions in effectiveness of the Nutritional Medicine Service operation. Directs, inspects and evaluates completed work of personnel. Establishes work schedules, work assignments, job descriptions and resolves technical difficulties. Formulates and follows standard operating instructions. Advises dietitian on equipment status, maintenance and adequacy; personnel training; and operational efficiency and economy. Provides input to the MTF budget. Coordinates nutritional medicine service activities with interrelated or using organizations.