Job Code: 4J051

Description:
Manages occupational therapy personnel in planning, providing, and evaluating patient care activities and related training programs. Assists occupational therapist in determining compliance with standards of care, policy, and directives. Implements treatment plans to rehabilitate patients with physical and psychosocial dysfunction. Coordinates administrative activities to ensure effective and efficient delivery of patient care programs. Evaluates and consolidates requirements for resources and make recommendations. Coordinates, prepares, and submits annual budget.

experience performing or supervising occupational therapy care. experience managing occupational therapy activities and functions.

Plans, implements, and manages the delivery of occupational therapy services in coordination with the Chief Occupational Therapy Element. Maintains standards of care and ethical conduct set by the American Occupational Therapy Association. Participates in planning, providing, and evaluating patient care. Trains in exercise and activities of daily living. Conducts treatment utilizing special equipment, modalities, and other treatment procedures. Fabricates splints and assistive devices to protect or assist patient in achieving optimal independent physical function. Gathers and documents performance data. Observes, records, and reports patient responses to treatment.   Directs, performs, and coordinates administrative functions with the Chief, Occupational Therapy Element. Establishes and coordinates policies with the occupational therapy functions, develops, interprets and evaluates regulations, policies, and procedures. Prepares, records and maintains patient records. Determines methods and sources of obtaining data for routine or special reports. Evaluates clinic resource requirements. Plans and schedules work priorities, monitors facilities, equipment, and supplies. Directs, coordinates, and validates Element budget requirements.

experience administering occupational therapy care.