Job Code: 4T071

Description:
Plans and organizes medical laboratory activities. Composes local medical laboratory regulations. Advises superiors regarding status and adequacy of equipment, supplies, personnel training, and operating efficiency. Coordinates with other activities, agencies, and organizations. 2.2. Directs medical laboratory activities. Resolves problems about operating medical laboratory activities. Ensures supply and equipment availability. Applies continuous and effective internal quality control of all medical laboratory departments. 2.3. Inspects and evaluates medical laboratory activities. Inspects of medical laboratory activities. Furnishes deficiency reports and outstanding accomplishments to superiors. Interprets inspection findings, and recommends corrective action. Supervises laboratory work area maintenance according to good laboratory technique, taking precautions to maintain safe conditions for both hospital and laboratory personnel. Evaluates laboratory quality control programs effectiveness. 2.4. Performs medical laboratory functions. Assists medical officers and allied scientists in research assignment in broad pathology field. Prepares tissue for electron microscopy. Directs toxicology procedures performance incident to aerospace pathology and forensic medicine programs. Assists biological warfare officer in developing procedures for detecting bacteriological agents incident to biological warfare.

Performs hematological tests and urinalyses. Accomplishes standardized quantitative and qualitative evaluation of erythrocytes, leukocytes, and thrombocytes. Examines stained blood smears microscopically and refers any abnormal cells to superiors. Performs coagulation studies on human blood and plasma. Performs chemical, macroscopic, and microscopic urine specimen examinations. Performs chemical analysis. Analyses human material or other products submitted to the laboratory, using photometric, calorimetric, titrimetric, radioisotope, or any other chemical or physical procedures applicable to clinical chemistry. Calibrates and maintains all instruments. Makes necessary calculations and reports data to superiors. Reviews all chemistry procedures to ensure current procedures are used. Performs blood bank duties. Draws and processes blood aseptically by standardized techniques. Completely types donors' and recipients' blood; assists in cross matching blood to establish donor-recipient compatibility, reporting any abnormal reactions to immediate supervisor. Prepares blood derivatives. Accomplishes all techniques required for blood transfusion service. Performs microbiological and serological tests. Conducts procedures to isolate and identify bacteria by gross and microscopic examination, staining, biochemical and immunological procedures, or any other determination of growth characteristics. Performs sensitivity test on pathogenic bacteria. Assists in identifying viruses and fungi. Applies parasitological techniques to recover and identify parasites. Applies standard serological tests for identifying antibodies specific to diseases. Accomplishes general medical laboratory duties. Conducts bacteriological and chemical examination of food products, water, dairy products, and sewage incidental to preventive and veterinary medicine programs. Takes all necessary precautions to maintain safe conditions in laboratory for both laboratory and hospital personnel. Performs preventative maintenance procedures on laboratory equipment. Performs and evaluates laboratory quality control procedures. Prepares reagents for use in test performance. Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and evaluates medical laboratory activity. Composes local medical laboratory regulations. Applies continuous effective internal quality control of all medical laboratory departments. Advises superiors regarding status and adequacy of equipment, supplies, personnel training, and operating efficiency. Coordinates with other activities, agencies, and organizations. Resolves problems about operating medical laboratory activities. Inspects medical laboratory activities. Furnishes deficiency reports and outstanding accomplishments to superiors. Interprets inspection findings and recommends corrective actions. Performs medical laboratory functions. Assists medical officers and allied scientist in research assignments in broad pathology field. Prepares tissue for electron microscopy. Directs toxicology procedures performance incident to aerospace pathology and forensic medicine programs. Assists in epidemiological investigations. Assists biological warfare officer in developing procedures for detecting bacteriological agents incident to biological warfare.

Experience in performing functions in urinalyses, hematology, bacteriology, serology, and chemistry. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as work normally performed in a routine clinical laboratory (class A dispensary or hospital); specialty performance of tests or technical supervisory experience in clinical chemistry, bacteriology, toxicology, or virology at class A, class B, or analogous laboratory; or combination of foregoing types of experience.

Plans and organizes medical laboratory activities. Composes local medical laboratory regulations. Advises superiors regarding status and adequacy of equipment, supplies, personnel training, and operating efficiency. Coordinates with other activities, agencies, and organizations. Directs medical laboratory activities. Resolves problems about operating medical laboratory activities. Ensures supply and equipment availability. Applies continuous and effective internal quality control of all medical laboratory departments. Inspects and evaluates medical laboratory activities. Inspects of medical laboratory activities. Furnishes deficiency reports and outstanding accomplishments to superiors. Interprets inspection findings, and recommends corrective action. Supervises laboratory work area maintenance according to good laboratory technique, taking precautions to maintain safe conditions for both hospital and laboratory personnel. Evaluates laboratory quality control programs effectiveness.  Performs medical laboratory functions. Assists medical officers and allied scientists in research assignment in broad pathology field. Prepares tissue for electron microscopy. Directs toxicology procedures performance incident to aerospace pathology and forensic medicine programs. Assists biological warfare officer in developing procedures for detecting bacteriological agents incident to biological warfare.