Job Code: 54530

Description:
Installs, operates, maintains, and repairs heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVAC/R) systems, combustion equipment, and industrial air compressors. Maintains and repairs non-electric kitchen equipment. Manages HVAC and R functions and activities.

experience in functions such as operation, mainte¬nance, and repair of HVAC and R equipment and control systems. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as operation, maintenance, and repair of HVAC and R equipment and control systems.

Experience managing functions such as inspecting, operating, maintaining, and repairing of HVAC and R systems.

Installs and operates HVAC and R systems and equipment. Interprets drawings and schematics, and installs HVAC and R components. Installs, repairs, fabricates, and tests piping and tubing systems. Installs, connects, troubleshoots, and maintains HVAC and R controls. Tests HVAC and R equipment for proper operation. Balances air and water in HVAC systems. Monitors systems operation to ensure efficiency and compliance technical orders, manufacturer handbooks, local procedures, codes, and directives. Evaluates water treatment for heating and cooling systems. Ensures compliance with safety and environmental regulations for fuels, refrigerants, and hazardous materials. Maintains, and repairs HVAC and R equipment and systems. Performs recurring maintenance and seasonal overhaul on systems and components. Uses drawings and schematics to analyze and isolate system malfunctions. Troubleshoots malfunctions. Repairs or replaces components. Modifies equipment for specific missions or to increase efficiency. Maintains tools and equipment. Maintains shop tools and equipment. Advises on problems installing and repairing HVAC and R equipment and systems. Solves maintenance problems by studying layout drawings, wiring and schematic drawings, and analyzing construction and operating characteristics. Develops and establishes operation and maintenance procedures to ensure maximum efficiency. Performs planning activities. Performs facility surveys. Surveys proposed work to determine resource requirements. Prepares cost estimates for in-service work. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate jobs. Coordinates plans and other activities.