Job Code: 55131

Description:
Constructs and maintains concrete and asphalt runways, aircraft parking aprons, and roads. Operates and maintains heavy construction equipment, such as loaders, graders, dozers, backhoes, and dump trucks. Operates tractor-trailer combinations, transporting construction equipment, and materials. Ensures compliance with all safety and environmental regulations

Experience in functions such as operating tools and equipment to prepare areas for construction and to maintain roads, runways, and grounds; and mixing and placing concrete and bituminous materials. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as construction equipment operation; special techniques in using construction equipment to prepare areas for constructing and maintaining roads, grounds, and airfield surfaces; or concrete work, soil stabilization, and rigid and flexible pavement construction and maintenance.

Plans, constructs, and repairs airfield pavements, roads, streets, curbs, surface mats, membranes, and other improved areas using paving and surfacing procedures. Takes soil, aggregate, asphalt, and concrete samples for laboratory tests. Interprets construction drawings and surveys using information such as subgrade contours and grade alignment. Inspects pavements for surface, base, and sub-base damage or defects. Repairs damaged or defective areas by removing and replacing joint and crack sealant, surface overlays, and seal coats. Determines material and equipment requirements and prepares cost estimates for construction activities. Provides erosion control. Determines type and application of equipment to use in various construction, maintenance, and repair operations. Operates construction equipment to finish grade, level, slope, and compact construction materials. Operates snow and ice removal equipment. Applies chemicals and other ice control products. Inspects, lubricates, and performs operator maintenance on construction and snow removal equipment. Adjusts and changes attachments on equipment. Connects and repairs wire rope rigging to cable-operated equipment. Schedules and coordinates equipment repair and servicing with the vehicle maintenance activity and other servicing facilities. Investigates proposed work sites to determine resource requirements. Applies engineered performance standards to plan and estimate jobs. Coordinates and plans work requirements with other civil engineering and base agencies. Inspects work to ensure quality and compliance with policies, regulations, and other publications. Designs demolition projects, places and detonates explosives. Performs quarry demolition, clearing and base denial operations as required. Operates water well drilling, rock crushing equipment, and fixed and mobile concrete and asphalt batch plants.

Experience directing functions such as snow and ice removal, construction equipment operations, and pavements and grounds maintenance.