Job Code: 55270

Description:
Manages, constructs, repairs, and modifies structural systems and wooden, masonry, metal, and concrete buildings. Fabricates and repairs components of buildings, utility systems, and real property equipment. Ensures compliance with environmental regulations.

Experience directing functions such as erecting structures or building maintenance.

Prepares and interprets working drawings and schematics for maintaining, altering, and repairing buildings and structures. Surveys proposed work sites to determine material and labor requirements. Prepares cost estimates. Reviews structural work progress and coordinates changes in schedules. Constructs and repairs footings, floors, slabs, foundations, walls, roofs, steps, doors, and windows for prefabricated and permanent structures. Constructs and modifies buildings. Prepares, applies, and finishes mortar, concrete, plaster, and stucco. Fabricates repairs, and installs metal parts and assemblies for utility systems and buildings. Erects steel and lays out trusses and structures to specific dimensions. Welds, cuts, brazes, and solders ferrous and nonferrous metals using various welding processes. Welds butt, lap, tee, and edge joints in all working positions. Inspects, maintains, repairs, and installs overhead and rollup doors, and mechanical gates. Installs forms and reinforcing material. Applies protective coatings such as primers, stains, and sealants. Troubleshoots, repairs, and installs commercially manufactured locking devices such as keyed, combination, cipher, panic hardware/exit device, and pad locks. Erects scaffolding and works from ladders and mobile platforms. Identifies and selects construction materials considering strength, moisture content, grade, mix, application procedures, and curing. Manages, inspects, and evaluates work center activities. Ensures compliance with commercial and military publications. Submits and reviews supply and equipment requisitions. Discusses inspection findings and recommends corrective action.

Experience in functions such as constructing and repairing buildings and heavy structures; erecting prefabricated structures; laying masonry units; mixing, applying, and finishing masonry products; erecting steel; use of protective equipment; and fabricating, installing, and repairing metal components using gas or arc welding equipment. Also, experience performing or supervising functions such as laying masonry units; carpentry; constructing, erecting, maintenance, and repair of buildings and heavy structures; and planning, installing, repairing, welding, or forging metal components.