Job Code: 55330

Description:
Directs and performs civil engineering design, drafting, surveying, and contract surveillance to support Air Force facility construction and maintenance programs. Prepares Computer Aided Design (CAD) drawings, specifications, and cost estimates. Operates, and maintains Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Utilizes surveying technology to include Global Positioning System (GPS). Evaluates potential construction sites and performs field tests on soils, asphalt, and concrete.

Experience in CAD, GIS and surveying. Also, experience in supervising CAD, GIS, surveying, material testing, and contract inspection.

Perform drafting duties. Interpret rough engineering sketches to produce working drawings using CAD techniques. Produce architectural, structural, civil, mechanical, and electrical drawings. Update Base Comprehensive Plans (BCP) and maintain record drawings. Plot and reproduce drawings. Perform surveying duties. Conduct reconnaissance, site location, construction, and mapping surveys. Utilize auto-levels, electronic total stations, resource and survey grade GPS equipment and related instruments to complete surveys. Collect, convert, and present field survey data for civil engineering projects. Perform GIS duties. Produce installation maps using a GIS interface. Create and maintain spatial, tabular and metadata to national standards. Combine disparate datasets from various organizations, with various projections and precisions. Develop query routines for end-user applications. Perform contract management duties. Manage and inspect construction and maintenance contracts. Interpret plans, specifications, and other contract documents. Coordinate, evaluate, monitor, and document contract activities and progress. Prepare recommendations for contract modifications. Review material submittals and evaluate procedures for compliance with contract specifications. Conduct pre-final, acceptance, and post acceptance inspections. Develop preliminary engineering designs. Prepare cost estimates, performance work statements and specifications for existing and proposed facilities. Perform simple load calculations for horizontal and vertical construction. Act as liaison between design, review, construction and using agencies. Perform standardized and expedient tests on soils, asphalt, and concrete. Collect, record, and interpret test data. Prepare reports for engineering evaluation. Support contingency operations. Develop plans to bed-down personnel, aircraft, and associated support functions during contingency operations. Evaluate existing airfield pavements, lighting, navigational aids, markings, and arresting systems. Perform recovery operations to include explosive ordinance reconnaissance, airfield damage assessment, minimum operating strip selection, repair calculations, and airfield marking procedures.

Experience in directing functions such as CAD, GIS, surveying, materials testing, drafting, and contract management.