Job Code: 61AX

Description:
Conducts or manages programs, projects, and activities to perform operational analyses/assessments supporting organizations throughout the Air Force. Performs a wide variety of duties including but not limited to laboratory research, general research, testing and evaluation, mission support, operations support, and logistics support; both in garrison and at deployed locations. Research includes defining a problem, selecting methods of approach, performing experiments, accumulating and interpreting data, and publishing results. Research management includes formulating, planning, fiscal programming, monitoring, evaluating, coordinating, and administering programs, projects, and activities.

Designs and conducts scheduled and ad hoc analyses. Identifies data needs and sources, researches and collects data, consults with subject matter experts, conducts planning meetings. Builds data tool applications for analyses, analyzes data and test results, and performs statistical analyses. Applies analyses to current operations and to operational scenarios. Assesses compliance with operational requirements documents, prepares and applies measures of effectiveness and performance. Advises users on applications of scientific analyses. Conducts and manages research. Plans research projects, determines theoretical aspects of problem, and selects methods of approach. Constructs experimental models, conducts experiments, devises instrumentation and techniques to record and collect test results, correlates data compiled in research and analysis, and briefs results. Is cognizant of and applies interdisciplinary scientific knowledge to plan and conduct research programs. Develops new concepts, methods, and techniques to solve scientific and operational problems. Analyzes theories and research findings to determine applications. Engages in continuous evaluation, development, and modification to improve performance and suitability of products and production processes. Employs mathematical techniques including probability and statistics, simulation, optimization theories, and computer systems to analyze, depict, and display data and analysis results. Develops design studies and monitors contracts. Recommends research and development projects, and acceptance or non-acceptance of research products. Prepares technical reports, including recommendations for additional research and development projects. Maintains research records and development project records. Serves as technical consultant or representative on scientific and technical boards and committees. Maintains liaison and coordinates projects with private sector research organizations, contractors, Air Force research and operational organizations, other Services and other government agencies, and universities. Manages scientific programs, projects, and activities. Plans, organizes, and directs laboratories, field units, and staff agencies. Provides staff supervision over activities and programs. Performs as staff officer and manager in positions requiring technical specialization.