Job Code: 61B1

Description:
Conducts or manages programs, projects, and activities to perform research/operational assessments. Research includes defining a problem, selecting methods of approach, performing experiments, accumulating and interpreting data, and publishing results. Research management includes formulating, planning, fiscal programming, monitoring, evaluating, coordinating, and administering programs, projects, and activities.

Conducts and manages research. Plans research projects, determines theoretical aspects of problem, and selects methods of approach. Constructs experimental models, conducts experiments, devises instrumentation and techniques to record and collect test results, correlates data compiled in research, analyzes and briefs results. Is cognizant of and applies interdisciplinary scientific knowledge to plan and conduct research programs. Develops new concepts, methods, and techniques to solve scientific and operational problems. Analyzes theories and research findings to determine applications. Engages in continuous development and modification to improve performance and suitability of products and production processes. Employs mathematical techniques including probability and statistics, simulation, optimization theories, and computer systems to analyze, depict, and display data and analysis results. Develops design studies and monitors contracts. Recommends research and development projects, and acceptance or non-acceptance of research products. Prepares technical reports, including recommendations for additional research and development projects. Maintains research records and development project records. Serves as technical consultant or representative on scientific and technical boards and committees. Maintains liaison with private sector research organizations, Air Force research and operational organizations, Army, Navy, and other government agencies. Plans and coordinates psychological operations with Service, Joint, and Inter-agency organizations. Designs and conducts research and accomplishes behavioral analysis of foreign target audiences to support psychological operations initiatives. Develops and analyzes psychological operations measures of effectiveness. Analyzes theories and research findings relevant to psychological operations. Advises leadership regarding behavioral science implications for psychological operations. Performs as Service and Joint psychological operations staff officer and manager in positions requiring behavioral scientist specialization. Develops concepts, methods, techniques and policy in the area of influence operations and related areas. Manages scientific programs, projects, and activities. Coordinates research efforts with related and interested agencies. Plans, organizes, and directs laboratories, field units, and staff agencies. Provides staff supervision over activities and programs. Performs as staff officer and manager in positions requiring technical specialization.

Tasks are the same as Junior tasks

a minimum of 24 months of experience in a 61B DAFSC is mandatory. It is mandatory that experience includes assignments in such activities as research, development, design, and technical writing in the suffix specialization. A master's degree in the suffix specialization may be substituted for 12 of the required 24 months experience. A Doctor of Philosophy degree in the specialization fulfills the 24-month requirement.