Job Code: 62E4

Description:
Plans, organizes, manages, and implements systems engineering process to assure required capability over life cycle of Air Force systems. Included are accomplishing specialized engineering processes and sub- processes; formulating engineering policy and procedures; and coordinating and directing engineering and technical management activities and operations necessary for system conception, development, production, verification, deployment, sustainment, operations, support, training, and disposal. This includes technical management associated with the requirements definition, design, manufacturing and quality, test, support engineering and technologies, modifications, spares acquisition, technical orders, mission critical computer resources, support equipment, and specialized engineering. Shredouts: A.....Aeronautical (Occ code 240400)  B.....Astronautical (Occ code 240400)  C.....Computer Systems (Occ code 240200)  E.....Electrical/Electronic (Occ code 240200)  F......Flight Test (Occ code 220400) G.....Project (Occ code 251200)  H.....Mechanical (Occ code 240400)

Accomplishes systems engineering processes and sub-processes. Performs systems planning activities associated with design, development, manufacturing, sustainment, and modification of systems to satisfy customer requirements. Identifies and transitions new technologies in systems and subsystems. Prepares, evaluates, and implements methods, processes, and techniques that support system design to improve performance, reliability, and maintainability for systems development and modification programs. Conducts design studies and manages studies contracted to industries. Participates in formulating program documentation and progress assessments for all phases of the acquisition process. Provides technical consultation.  Coordinates engineering and technical management activities. Advises management and staff on operations, current and revised policies and procedures, and new business practices. Coordinates with other functional activities to accomplish advance planning and to ensure process integration is accomplished, accurate, and understood. Maintains engineering and technical management liaison with contractors, Air Force field organizations, Army, Navy, Foreign Military Sales, and other governmental agencies. Formulates engineering and technical management policies and procedures. Continuously analyzes technical policies and procedures, products, and services to improve customer support. Establishes policies and procedures based on improved processes, methods, and sound business practices.  Plans, organizes, and directs engineering and technical management operations. Plans, schedules, and allocates work. Maintains work flow data to meet deadlines and established priorities. Analyzes Air Force requirements to determine if existing technical related infrastructure is capable of meeting customers needs. Directs personnel in performance of development and sustainment functions.