Job Code: 62S0

Description:
Directs test and evaluation activities for major system programs typically identified by one or more of the following: Air Force Executive Program; Defense Enterprise Program; DoDI 5000.02 Operation of the Defense Acquisition System; Secretary of the Air Force Program Assessment Review Program; a highly sensitive or highly visible program of significance to the Air Force; or Congressional Selected Acquisition Reporting Program. Alternatively, directs a portfolio of non-major system programs.

Directs test and evaluation activities for high precedence acquisition programs critical to fulfilling a priority DoD mission. Provides executive leadership and technical expertise through all phases of the acquisition life cycle for a major program because of its urgency of need, developmental risk, joint funding, congressional interest, and other similar factors. Delegates responsibility for preparing development, production, deployment, and system support plans. Responsible for personnel and financial resources allocated to program. Supervises program managers. Directs program activities pertaining to acquisition logistics, configuration and data management, contracting, engineering, manufacturing, program control, system safety, and test and evaluation. Assures development and delivery of program systems. Develops and motivates trained and experienced personnel for acquisition careers. Maintains relations with industry, educational institutions, professional organizations, and the civilian community. Delivers operational systems to commands. Responsive to user environment, concerns, and requirements. Coordinates program requirements and actions with commands. Promotes technology, base enhancement, and technology transition into systems. Establishes and supervises boards, working groups, and panels to assure smooth transition of systems and equipment to commands. Trains operations and maintenance personnel in conjunction with the system contractors, training agencies, and testing and using activities. Translates operational requirements into acquisition programs, evaluates contractor proposals, and recommends implementing actions. Establishes plans for system acquisition, including testing and evaluating programs progress. Ensures availability of operable and supportable systems and equipment on established schedules. Formulates policies and procedures for developing, procuring, and producing activities. Makes changes to the acquisition program to achieve desired outcomes.