Job Code: 6C051

Description:
Manages, performs, and administers contracting functions for commodities, services, and construction using simplified acquisition procedures, negotiation, and other approved methods. Uses automated contracting systems to prepare, process, and analyze transactions and products. Acts as business advisor, buyer, negotiator, administrator, and contracting officer. Supports all functions of contingency operations.

Experience in functions such as assisting and performing duties involved in simplified acquisition procedures, negotiations, and other approved methods. Also, experience in contracting for commodities, services, construction, and contract administration. Ability to perform Contingency Contracting Officer (CCO) duties.

Advises government and contractor personnel on contracting related issues. Obtains data on marketing trends, supply sources, and trade information. Prepares memoranda, determinations and findings, justifications, and approvals. Documents contracting files. Prepares documents, processes transactions, and maintains files applicable to automated contracting systems and other electronic methods. Analyzes statistical data pertinent to contracting functions. Ensures contractors comply with bonding, insurance, and tax requirements as applicable. Supports studies pursuant to competitive sourcing. Performs market research. Reviews requirements to include descriptions, government furnished property, availability of funds, justifications for sole source, brand name purchasing, and delivery requirements. Reviews proposed documents to ensure contractual correctness and compliance with regulations, directives, laws, statutes, and contracting policies. Reviews government estimates. Determines appropriate contracting methods and contract types. Maximizes use of commercial items and practices. Interprets and explains government procedures and regulations. Determines applicability of contract clauses and special provisions. Prepares solicitations, solicits proposals for commodities, services, and construction requirements. Ensures solicitations are publicly advertised as appropriate. Reviews and evaluates cost and pricing data/information. Analyzes and reviews award actions. Obtains and evaluates past performance information. Determines contractor responsibility. Evaluates responsiveness of bids and offers. Prepares and conducts negotiations. Prepares bid abstracts. Amends and cancels solicitations. Rejects bids. Reviews and evaluates bids or offers. Recommends contract award. Mediates protests. Conducts site visits to determine adequacy of contractor compliance and customer satisfaction. Interviews contractor employees to determine labor law compliance. Trains and monitors quality assurance personnel. Assesses contractor compliance and determines appropriate actions. Resolves claims, disputes, and appeals. Terminates contracts and administers termination settlements. Provides contingency contracting support at stateside or deployed locations in support of joint U. S. and allied forces. Develops and manages contingency contracting program plans. Evaluates methods and procedures used in purchasing commodities, services, and construction. Ensures contractors' adherence to delivery schedules and prices. Prepares and presents evaluation in the form of correspondence and briefings. Participates in the unit self-inspection program.