Job Code: 71S1

Description:
Manages and conducts special investigations, to include criminal, fraud, counterintelligence, internal security, and technical services investigations, and other related activities.

Formulates special investigations policy governing investigative and related programs in counterintelligence, criminal, fraud, and technical services areas. Establishes investigative work loads based on complexity of cases and capability of units and assigned special agents. Determines requirements for facilities, material, and personnel, to include office space, communications, services, supplies, vehicles, budget requirements, and investigative equipment. Determines requirements for military and civilian agents and administrative support based on work load or unit investigative area. Establishes organization, location, and operational procedures, including budget, logistical, and technical support for Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) units. Establishes procedures for operational control and dissemination of investigative reports and special studies. Develops standards to evaluate performance of investigative personnel and activities. Establishes training programs for AFOSI, DoD organizations, and foreign allied personnel. Coordinates special investigation activities. Serves as representative on committees and boards. Conducts joint investigations and operations with agencies such as, protective services to the United States State Department and the Secret Service for the President, First Family, and other high-level United States and foreign dignitaries. Conducts operational coordination with counterintelligence, investigative, and law enforcement agencies. Provides information, formal studies, or reports to USAF commanders and Air Staff officials on trends and patterns of irregularities, weaknesses, and offenses in the counterintelligence, criminal, fraud, and technical services area. Monitors and directs special investigations activities. Prepares instructions and procedures for use in investigations of complex or sensitive nature. Analyzes and disseminates information of counterintelligence, criminal, fraud, internal security, and technical services nature to USAF commanders and other federal, DoD, state, and local agencies. Provides counterintelligence support to Air Force participation in international arms control treaties. Manages counterintelligence, criminal, and fraud intelligence information collection systems. Prepares budget estimates based on workloads, special requirements for investigative functions, and forecasts of future needs. Inspects special investigative activities to determine management effectiveness and status of relations with USAF command officials and federal, DoD, state, and local agencies.

experience is mandatory performing, supervising, or directing functions in criminal, fraud, counterintelligence, technical services, policy formulation, or devising procedures to implement special investigations.