Job Code: 7S071

Description:
Conducts criminal, economic crime, counterintelligence, force protection, personnel suitability, computer crime, technical services investigations and special inquiries. Manages special investigations activities.

Experience performing and supervising functions such as investigations or inquiries.

Plans, conducts, documents, and manages proactive and reactive investigative activities. Interviews victims and witnesses and interrogates persons suspected of committing major violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and other laws. Administers oaths to and obtains signed statements from persons interviewed and interrogated. Conducts crime scene searches. Identifies, seizes, preserves, and safeguards evidence, and requests laboratory analyses thereof. Plans and participates in surveillance operations. Conducts lineups and fingerprints suspects. Conducts economic, violation of public trust, and environmental crime investigations. Conducts liaison with counterpart investigative and security agencies. Identifies, tests, and recruits human sources of information. Conducts intrusion and other computer crime investigations. Documents investigative activity in management information systems and provides detailed reports to command and legal authorities for their action. Provides testimony in legal proceedings and regularly briefs command officials on the status of investigative services. Coordinates investigative matters of mutual interest with other local, state, federal, and foreign law enforcement and security agencies Plans, conducts, documents, and manages counterintelligence and force protection investigative activities. Investigates allegations of espionage, sabotage, terrorism, subversion, and major security violations. Establishes contact with host nation counterpart agencies and friendly forces to determine multi-discipline threats to USAF or DoD personnel, resources and operations. Develops human source networks to obtain critical and timely threat information. Collects, analyzes, documents and expeditiously reports threat information to the appropriate command authorities. Conducts personnel suitability investigations, protective service operations, provides technical surveillance countermeasures support, and conducts special inquiry investigations. Conducts offensive counterespionage operations targeting foreign intelligence services. Conducts defensive and awareness briefings on threat posed by foreign intelligence services, terrorist, subversive groups and other threats. Plans, conducts, documents and manages personnel security investigations to determine whether unfavorable information exists on persons regarding their character, loyalty, discretion, integrity, and financial responsibility. Plans, conducts, documents, and manages technical services support to all AFOSI investigative mission areas. Performs preventative and corrective maintenance on equipment to ensure operational readiness. Plans, conducts, documents, and manages Psychophyisiological Detection of Deception (PDD) examinations and maintains equipment. Plans, conducts, documents, and manages computer crime investigative matters.

Experience managing special investigations, activities, criminal, economic, and environmental crime investigations, counterintelligence, force protection, PDD, computer crime, and technical services.