Job Code: 81130

Description:
SF personnel perform force protection duties, including the use of deadly force, to protect personnel and resources. SF duties ensure combat capability through the functions of installation security, nuclear and conventional weapon systems and resources security, Integrated Defense (ID), police services, military working dog (MWD) activities, and combat arms (CA). SF functions will be performed during peacetime, contingency, and wartime operations. Personnel in this career field will be deployed and employed in sensitive or hostile environments created by terrorism, sabotage, nuclear, chemical, biological or conventional warfare. SF members perform the military police function within the Air Force.

Leads, manages, supervises, and implements ground weapons training programs. Operates SF armories. Controls and safeguards arms, ammunition, and equipment. Instructs ground weapons qualification training. Provides guidance on weapons placement to security forces and ground defense force commanders. Inspects ground weapons and replaces unserviceable parts. Analyzes malfunctions by inspection and serviceability testing. Uses precision gauges, testing instruments, and special tools to adjust parts and operating mechanisms. Function-fires weapons for accuracy and serviceability. Controls and operates firing ranges and associated facilities, to include supervising construction and rehabilitation and certifies other users on range utilization procedures.

Leads, manages, supervises, and performs force protection duties, including use of deadly force to protect personnel and resources. Protects nuclear and conventional weapons systems and other resources. Performs integrated defense functions contributing to the force protection mission. Controls and secures terrain inside and outside military installations. Defends personnel, equipment, and resources from hostile forces. Operates in various field environments, performs individual, and team patrol movements, both mounted and dismounted, tactical drills, battle procedures, convoys, crisis response and limited contingency operations, antiterrorism duties, and other special duties. Operates communications equipment, vehicles, intrusion detection equipment, crew-served weapons, and other special purpose equipment. Applies self-aid buddy care, life saving procedures, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation, as first responder to accident and disaster scenes. 2.2. Provides armed response and controls entry. Detects and reports presence of unauthorized personnel and activities. Implements security reporting and alerting system. Enforces standards of conduct, discipline, and adherence to laws and directives. Directs vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Investigates motor vehicle accidents, minor crimes, and incidents. Operates speed measuring, drug and alcohol, and breath test devices. Apprehends and detains suspects. Searches persons and property. Secures crime and incident scenes. Collects, seizes, and preserves evidence. Conducts interviews of witnesses and suspects. Obtains statements and testifies in official judicial proceedings. Responds to disaster and relief operations. Participates in contingencies.