Job Code: 81T0

Description:
Instructs personnel in academic subjects.

Organizes and prepares instructional materials. Studies objectives of formal training. Develops course syllabi, training project outlines, and daily and weekly lesson plans. Prepares assignments, laboratory exercises, demonstrations, training aids, and reference and related material required to parallel and supplement course outline. Organizes physical conditioning programs. Instructs personnel. Determines methods of instruction, considering the size of the group and subject matter. Instructs students by lectures, discussions, demonstrations, group activities, and laboratory work. Demonstrates subject principles and application to students, using audiovisual aids such as mockups, graphs, training films, and film strips. Evaluates the progress of students, using such aids as achievement and aptitude tests and rating scales. Diagnoses individual learning difficulties and recommends courses of remedial instruction. Supplements texts with additional sources of information to clarify subject matter. Prepares classrooms for instruction, controlling factors such as temperature, ventilation, lighting, cleanliness, and arrangement of desks and equipment. Maintains attendance records and requisitions supplies. Briefs students on safety precautions associated with equipment and facilities used. Conducts instructor training programs by demonstrating effective teaching methods, reviewing lesson plans, and conducting professional instructor training seminars. Coordinates training program. Confers with education and training staff officers on changes in texts, project training outlines, general progress of class, disciplinary problems, entrance requirements, examination procedures and tests, school records, and related subjects. Coordinates preparation of training manuals, test construction, and improvement of instructional material with maintenance shop to develop training aids. Advises education and training staff officers on matters such as the revision of course curricula.