Job Code: 86M0

Description:
Conducts operations training and scheduling; develops operational plans and programs; manages tactical deception activities; and provides commanders and staff with assessment of operations effectiveness. Interprets and disseminates inspection results and recommends action to correct deficiencies and improve performance.

Develops operational training plans and evaluates effectiveness of training programs. Supervises academic and military training of crew members to ensure certification, adequacy of instruction, proper briefing procedures, and adequacy of weather, navigation, and communications facilities. Coordinates training programs with staff agencies; conducts critiques on training programs; develops procedures for improving operations; and advises commander on status of operational training programs. Analyzes and evaluates training programs, reports, and status charts to determine effectiveness, and ensures compliance with governing directives. 2.2. Develops operational plans and organizes operational programs. Interprets and translates policy from higher authority into specific guidance for operations. Develops operational concepts, translates support missions into force requirements, establishes procedures, and monitors plans and programs to implement Air Force, joint, and combined operations. Coordinates with other agencies to identify shortfalls and limiting factors affecting operational plans. Drafts exercise plans. Reviews and coordinates final exercise directives. Evaluates and analyzes operational exercise plans to determine unit operating effectiveness. 2.3. Manages inspection programs and evaluates operations effectiveness. Serves as the inspector general point of contact and acts as command monitor for inspection reports and special interest items. Inspects units and activities for compliance with directives and standardization of operation. Manages the base exercise evaluation team program. Monitors readiness of communications, logistics, personnel, and other support functions directly affecting unit mission. Assists in planning, executing, evaluating, and critiquing base-wide emergency and contingency exercises. Develops exercise objectives and scenario events list. Debriefs exercise participants and publishes written reports.