Job Code: 8A070

Description:
Provides for safety of passengers. Plans, coordinates, and manages cabin duties. Performs aircrew functions. Manages flight attendant activities and related duties.

Provides for passenger safety during aircraft operations. Demonstrates and maintains proficiency in emergency equipment use, emergency procedures, and egress. Briefs passengers. Responsible for orderly expeditious evacuation of passengers and crew. Provides emergency medical assistance.  Performs preflight, through-flight, and post flight inspections of aircraft emergency, cabin, and galley equipment. Operates aircraft systems and equipment such as electrical, interphone, doors, exits. Responsible for cleanliness of aircraft interior away from home station.  Provides for passenger comfort during aircraft operations. Plans all menus and coordinates meal requirements. Purchases required foodstuffs and supplies to serve meals and beverages. Stores and preserves food items. Provides cabin service and monitors passengers in-flight. Supervises loading and off-loading of aircraft. Validates passenger manifest. Performs passenger and baggage inspections. Supervises loading and unloading of baggage. Applies restraint devices such as straps and nets to prevent shifting during flight. Ensures access to escape exits. Prepares and checks forms, records, and documents. Prepares records and documents including cash collection forms. Provides guidance on foreign clearance requirements; such as immunizations, customs, and courtesies, entry and departure procedures, and necessary documentation. Prepares aircraft border clearance forms and assists passengers and crew with individual clearance requirements. Inventories supplies and equipment. Manages flight attendant activities. Administers qualification flights for flight attendant duties. Discusses findings and recommends corrective action. Coordinates flight attendant activities. Resolves operational problems.

Experience in mission planning and management, culinary skills, supervising flight attendant activities.Experience managing flight attendant activities.

experience in directing flight attendant activities, analyzing and interpreting directives.