Job Code: 8B000

Description:
This is a special duty assignment job not available to new enlistees. Conducts basic military training for non-prior service airmen, including those of the Air Reserve Forces, and initial military training for cadets of the United States Air Force Academy. Plans and organizes military training requirements. Determines requirements for training, facilities, space, equipment, visual aids, and supplies to support military training requirements, and monitors the training program to ensure effective use of support items. Plans and organizes phases of training, student flow, and flight assignments, consistent with available facilities. Plans the use of non-appropriated funds for training activities or equipment.

Plans, organizes, and directs basic and initial military training. Plans and organizes military training requirements. Determines requirements for training, facilities, space, equipment, visual aids, and supplies to support military training requirements, and monitors the training program to ensure effective use of support items. Plans and organizes phases of training, student flow, and flight assignments, consistent with available facilities. Plans the use of nonappropriated funds for training activities or equipment. Inspects and evaluates military training activities, personnel, and facilities. Conducts periodic inspections of training activities and assists training units in correcting training deficiencies. Evaluates personnel undergoing military training, to include performance and adaptability. Counsels and advises individuals on training problems. Identifies nonprior service personnel unfit or unsuitable for retention in the Air Force. Prepares and maintains files and records pertinent to basic and initial military training. Prepares and maintains a training record on each individual undergoing training. Prepares reports and records about student accountability. Maintains completed training record files for historical review. Instructs on basic and initial military training. Instructs indoor and outdoor military training subjects using demonstration-performance and lecture methods. Uses film projection equipment in support of training objectives. Provides remedial training for nonprior service personnel undergoing this military training.