Job Code: 8B100

Description:
Counsels all airmen attending technical school on training or personal problems, military bearing, standards, and behavior; and schedules and conducts military training functions for students.

Advises and counsels students. Establishes and conducts incoming, outgoing, and student entry briefings. Conducts individual and group interviews. Motivates personnel to develop military attitudes, effective human relations, and social skills for improving interpersonal and military relations. Assists students in their personal adjustment to military life. Establishes and maintains liaison with the School of Applied Aerospace Sciences in order to keep up to date on student activities and identify student status such as problem or exceptional (honor) students. Applies counseling techniques and military experience to counsel airmen with training, military bearing, and behavior problems. Refers students to the appropriate staff agency. Identifies airmen unfit or unsuitable for retention in the Air Force. Plans, organizes, and directs military education instruction. Monitors and conducts military training within the unit. Determines appropriate instruction methods considering the group size and subject matter. Conducts instruction using demonstration-performance and lecture methods. Maintains thorough knowledge of and instructs personnel in drill, parades, retreats, and reviews. Provides supplemental military training. Ensures students maintain military standards. Guides and assists in selecting, training, and evaluating student leaders. Monitors safety in formations, dormitories, and sports. Ensures students maintain personal appearance and order in military formations. Monitors and controls grounds maintenance assigned to unit. Maintains duty rosters and forms, and assures fatigue and squadron details are distributed fairly. Ensures students maintain discipline and Air Force standards in dormitories. Ensures students comply with directives. Prepares and maintains files and records on military education and counseling matters. Prepares statistical reports and records about student accountability. Accounts for assigned students and maintains general military training forms.