Job Code: 8D050

Description:
Collects and reports intelligence information obtained from human sources in response to requirements. Screens documents and open source materials to identify potential source leads. Assesses, debriefs, and interrogates sources in English and in foreign languages. Translates written material, and interprets conversation from one language to another. Performs controlled operations officer duties. Supervises interviews, debriefings, and interrogations conducted in foreign languages.

Collects intelligence information. Screens documents and open source materials to identify source leads. Contacts and assesses leads to determine value and validity of source information. Conducts in-depth debriefings or interrogations under conditions ranging from peacetime through major conflict. Performs controlled operations officer duties. Responds to intelligence community requirements. Prepares Intelligence Information Reports (IIRs) and summaries from collected data citing specific requirements. Practices and applies appropriate security controls. Translates written material from one language to another, and captures the intent of idiomatic expressions. Screens foreign language materials for information of intelligence value. Acts as interpreter in order to convey meaning of conversations.  Publishes knowledge level briefs, notices of intelligence potential, and requests for requirements to alert the intelligence community on source availability and information. Assembles resulting source-directed requirements and performs in-depth debriefings. Appropriately distributes collected intelligence via IIRs to consumers. Maintains familiarity with validated requirements and applies them to screenings, assessments, debriefings, and interrogations; and to any documents resulting from these activities. Develops continuity book or database on current requirements. Works developed sources within the guidance of the collection management system. Acts as an open channel of communication between the collector and the consumer to ensure requirements are satisfied. Debriefs United States and foreign sources for intelligence information. Interrogates prisoners of war, enemy deserters, and civilian detainees. Complies with established laws and policies during the interviews or interrogations. Screens potential sources by examining biographical records and personal documents; and by assessing subject's demeanor, grade, and apparent status. Evaluates source reliability and makes pertinent IIR field comments.