Job Code: 8E000

Description:
Performs as engineer, scientist, or engineering and scientific technician in support of scientific or engineering research and applications functions involving observation, study, and experimentation with the Human Systems Division or with the Research and Technology Laboratories, the Air Force Flight Test Center, or other Air Force activities.

Participates in research or engineering projects. Participates in planning, coordinating, collecting, evaluating, and interpreting data and writing reports detailing the results of research or applied engineering investigations. Explores and tests new ideas. Assists or conducts research on different aspects of experimental problems in biological, physical, or social sciences; engineering; or mathematics. Applies knowledge of scientific principles to problems associated with scientific experimental objectives. Uses deductive logic and reasoning from known scientific principles or rules to arrive at conclusions about specific cases. Assists researchers or engineers, or performs as the engineer responsible for the development or improvement of materials and products. Checks materials quality and equipment performance. Collects and analyzes material. Performs as research worker or engineering technician aide in collecting information on experimental problems. Studies technical journals and books to determine results of prior research on problems. Provides abstracts or summaries of factual information relative to the problem, and assists in developing possible solutions. Performs other duties that use specific, specialized expertise possessed by the individual. Provides specialized management for acquisition programs. Directs and participates in efforts to establish the technical, military, and economic bases for a program in the conceptual phase, throughout the validation, full scale engineering development, and production and deployment phases of the acquisition life cycle. Interfaces with defense contractors. Performs program office management. Assists the program manager by performing various managerial and supervisory tasks associated with such functions as program control, configuration management, test and deployment, engineering, and integrated logistics support. Assesses the program office's overall performance, and prepares status briefings for the program manager's use. Prepares key program documentation such as the program management plan and the integrated logistics support plan. Takes part in organization, administration, and configuration management and preparing and executing system and subsystem management. Serves as project officer or manager for a discrete portion of a system, either hardware or software, and system integration. Responsible for identifying and resolving all subsystem, hardware, and software interface or logistic problems in support of system design.