Job Code: 8G000

Description:
Performs as a member of the Honor Guard representing the Air Force at ceremonies where protocol or custom dictate using an honor guard or military escort. Performs as United States Air Force Honor Guard in the Washington D.C. area or Installation Honor Guard at Air Force installations.

Manages and participates in Air Force Honor Guard or Installation Honor Guard operations. Performs as a member of the United States Air Force Honor Guard or Installation Honor Guard. Symbolizes the United States Air Force to American and foreign dignitaries at public ceremonies in the Washington DC area or at base level. Participates in Air Force and joint service arrival and departure ceremonies for the President, foreign heads of state, and other national or international dignitaries. Performs Military Funeral Honors for AF active duty, retired personnel, and veterans according to prescribing publication. Acts as an escort or member of an honor guard unit. Participates in Air Force and joint service ceremonies on special occasions such as state or Air Force funerals, wreath ceremonies, and color guard and escort duties at civil and military events and ceremonies in the Washington DC area or at base level. Performs honor guard duties for installation events, luncheons, retirements, promotion ceremonies, and civic events as deemed appropriate by the Installation Commander. Plans and conducts United States Air Force Honor Guard activities. Plans and conducts United States Air Force Honor Guard participation in Air Force and joint service ceremonies. Advises Air Force activities and coordinates on matters pertaining to ceremonies and protocol. Plans and conducts Installation Honor Guard activities. Plans and conducts Base Honor Guard participation in Air Force and joint service ceremonies. Advises installation activities and coordinates on matters pertaining to ceremonies and protocol. May participate in the United States Air Force Honor Guard Drill Team performing intricate drill routines at civil and military events and ceremonies.