Job Code: 8T000

Description:
Develops and conducts professional military education (PME) programs for airmen, noncommissioned officers (NCO), and senior NCOs; provides management consultant services.

Responsible for all aspects of school operations. Implements Air Force, Barnes Center, and MAJCOM EPME policies, programs and procedures. Provides leadership, guidance and direction to the faculty, support staff and students. Supervises and/or evaluates faculty and support staff. Directs facility and uniform appearance inspections. Responsible for the training of faculty and support personnel. Interfaces with Air Force and civic organizations to enhance support for EPME. Recruits and selects faculty and support personnel. Manages all resource programs: manpower, money, equipment, and facilities. Plans, manages and hosts graduation ceremonies. Note: ALS Commandants must complete the same training requirements as an instructor, instruct as necessary, and meet minimum instructor evaluation requirements. The AFSNCOA and NCOA Commandant positions are the only non-teaching positions at an EPME school.

Instructs PME subjects. Instructs both indoors and outdoors, using informal lectures lecture, case study, teaching interviews, guided discussion, and other teaching methods. Uses computer software programs, video, DVD, CD and projection equipment, television, and other audiovisual equipment in support of educational goals. Plans, organizes, and directs PME programs and activities. Plans and organizes PME requirements for education, facilities, space, equipment, visual aids, and supplies. Develops and revises curriculum materials. Conducts needs analysis. Monitors entire education program. Plans and organizes phases of education, student flow, and class schedules consistent with production goals and available resources. Inspects and evaluates PME activities, personnel, and facilities. Conducts periodic inspection of school activities, and assists schools in deficiency corrections. Evaluates student performance. Counsels and advises individuals on academic and nonacademic issues impacting student performance. Monitors and ensures facilities support educational mission. Prepares and maintains files and records pertinent to PME matters. Prepares and maintains administrative records on each student. Prepares statistical reports and records about student performance. Maintains completed school record files for historical review. Provides management consultant services. Conducts and administers symposiums, workshops, or conferences; interprets organizational surveys; evaluates program management effectiveness and provides feedback.