Job Code: 0321

Description:
The reconnaissance man is an infantry Marine skilled in amphibious reconnaissance and ground reconnaissance. In addition to basic infantry skills, he possesses proficiency in scout swimming, small boat operations and refined observation, scouting, patrolling and long-range communications skills. Reconnaissance men receive advanced training as static line and military freefall parachutists and jumpmasters, as well as combatant divers and diving supervisors. Reconnaissance men serve initially in USMC reconnaissance with possible future assignment to Marine Special Operations Command.

Carries out orders of Platoon Commander. Primary insert/extract officer for reconnaissance operations. Serves as a watch officer in the platoon ROC / SARC during tactical evolutions. Plans and coordinates for all reconnaissance platoon related supporting arms requirements, to include artillery, mortars, NGF and fixed and rotary wing CAS. Proficient in all aspects of supporting arms execution. Must be expert in all aspects of ground and amphibious reconnaissance. Trains platoon members in all aspects of basic and advanced ground and amphibious reconnaissance skills. Assists in the planning, coordination and supervision of teams during insertion and extraction operations to include static line and military free-fall parachuting operations, surface swimming, HRST, helocast, small boat operations and combat diver operations. Performs self-aid and buddy aid. Proficient in all methods of nautical and land navigation. Qualified as a small boat coxswain for all craft used by the platoon.

Carries of the orders of the Operations Officer and/or Commanding Officer. Provides recommendations during the planning process to the Operations Officer as it pertains to R&S. Supervises daily work routine. Supervises the establishment of the COC. Supervises displacement of the COC. Trains and supervises COC Watch Officers.

Carries out orders of Platoon Commander. Responsible for the professional development and personal well being of his team members. Prepares and supervises issue of the warning order and mission order, conducts rehearsals, inspections and insertion/extraction for his team. Adept at briefing all aspects of assigned missions/tasks. Overall responsible for accomplishment of assigned mission tasks. Proficient in employment of organic reconnaissance team weapons, communications equipment and other special equipment. Ensures all team members are proficient in their specific reconnaissance tasks. Proficient in the control of all reconnaissance team related supporting arms requirements, to include artillery, mortars, NGF and fixed and rotary wing CAS.3-A-2,Cross trains all teams members in the duties and responsibilities of the other team members. Proficient in nautical and land navigation skills. Familiar with remote sensor operations. Proficient in all aspects of ground and amphibious reconnaissance. Proficient in foreign weapons and equipment identification. Proficient in all aspects of supporting arms. Qualified to conduct HRST operations as HRST Master. Able to perform Self Aid / Buddy Aid.