Job Code: 0619

Description:
Wire Chiefs design, engineer, and manage the installation, operation, and maintenance of tactical wire/cable networks to link key outposts, control points, and headquarters with reliable paths for the transmission of telephone, facsimile, and data services. Wire chiefs develop a systems approach toward communications, understanding radio and data communications equipment capabilities and systems integration. Typical duties are reparation of circuit diagrams, line route maps, work schedules, switchboard programming, and instruction of wire personnel in wire systems techniques and telephone equipment employment. Responsibilities also include designing, engineering, and managing the installation/organizational maintenance of the AN/TTC-62 and AN/TTC-63 tactical telephone centers. The AN/TTC-62 Deployed End of Suite (DEOS) and AN/TTC-63 Remote Subscriber Access Module (RSAM) provide the voice services of the Transition Switch Module concept. These systems are computer-controlled nodes for multiple analog, Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN), and Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) trunks/lines. Additional duties may include designing, engineering, and managing the installation/organizational maintenance of the Tri-Services Tactical (TRI-TAC) Switchboard SB-3865 and the Central Office AN/TTC-42. These systems are computer-controlled nodes for multiple conditioned diphase trunks/lines. Wire chief may be additionally responsible for designing, engineering, and managing the installation/organizational maintenance of the Compact Digital Switch (CDS) within the Digital Technical Control (DTC) facility. This system is computer-controlled node for multiple conditioned diphase trunks/lines.

Plan a telephony network, plan a cabling system, plan installation of ancillary equipment, manage a telephony network, manage a cabling system

Plan a telephony network, plan a cabling system, plan installation of ancillary equipment, manage a telephony network, manage a cabling system